LAWS OF MALAYSIA _____________ ONLINE VERSION OF UPDATED TEXT OF REPRINT _____________ Act 703 JUDGES’ ETHICS COMMITTEE ACT 2010 As at 1 August 2015

2 JUDGES’ ETHICS COMMITTEE ACT 2010 Date of Royal Assent … … … 6 January 2010 Date of publication in the Gazette … … … 14 January 2010 

3 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 703 JUDGES’ ETHICS COMMITTEE ACT 2010 ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS PART I PRELIMINARY Section 1. Short title and commencement 2. Interpretation PART II JUDGES’ ETHICS COMMITTEE 3. Constitution of the Committee 4. Jurisdiction of the Committee 5. Membership of the Committee 6. Substitute member 7. Principles and procedure 8. Proceedings in camera 9. Enquiry 10. Disclosure of interest 11. Meetings of the Committee 12. Quorum 13. Adjournment of hearing before the Committee 14. Records and minutes of proceedings 15. Decision of the Committee 

 

5 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 703 JUDGES’ ETHICS COMMITTEE ACT 2010 An Act to establish a Judges’ Ethics Committee and to provide for its functions and powers and for other matters connected therewith. [4 March 2010] ENACTED by the Parliament of Malaysia as follows: PART I PRELIMINARY Short title and commencement 1. (1) This Act may be cited as the Judges’ Ethics Committee Act 2010. (2) This Act comes into operation on a date to be appointed by the Minister by notification in the Gazette. Interpretation 2. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires— “judge” means a judge of the High Court, a judge of the Court of Appeal and a judge of the Feder al Court, and includes a Judicial Commissioner; “Committee” means the Judges’ Ethics Committee constituted under section 3; 

6 Laws of Malaysia ACT 703 “Code of Ethics” means the code of ethics prescribed under Clause (3B) of Article 125 of the Federal Constitution; “breach” means the breach of any provisions of the Code of Ethics; “Chairman” means the Chairman of the Committee appointed under section 5. PART II JUDGES’ ETHICS COMMITTEE Constitution of the Committee 3. There shall be constituted a co mmittee by the name o f “Judges’ Ethics Committee”. Jurisdiction of the Committee 4. The Committee shall have juri sdiction in matters relating to the conduct and discipline of all judges other than the removal of a judge from office under C lause (3) of Article 125 of the Federal Constitution. Membership of the Committee 5. (1) The Committee shall be in odd numbers and shall consist of persons who hold or have held office as the President of the Court of Appeal, Chief Judge of the High Court in Malaya, Chief Judge of the High Court in Sabah and Sarawak, judge of the Federal Court, the Court of Appeal or a High Court as the Chief Justice of the Federal Court thinks fit to appoint. (2) The Chief Justice of the Fede ral Court shall be the Chairman of the Committee, unless h e is the complainant, in which case the next senior judge shall be the Chairman. 

Judges’ Ethics Committee 7 (3) The appointment of the members of the Committee shall be on an ad hoc basis. (4) Notwithstanding any provisi ons of this Act, the members of the Committee shall compr ise judges who are senior in the order of precedence to the judge who i s the subject of a disciplinary proceeding. Substitute member 6. (1) Where the Chairman is una ble, through illness or for any other reason, to attend a disciplin ary proceeding, th e next senior serving judge in the Committee shall be the Chairman, and the Chief Justice of the Federal Court shall appoint another judge in place of that senior judge. (2) Where any member of t he Committee is unable, through illness or for any other reason, to attend a disciplinary proceeding, the Chief Justice of the Federal Court shall appoint another judge in place of that member. (3) A member of the Committee appointed under subsection (1) or (2) shall be a judge who is se nior in the order of pr ecedence to the judge who is the subject of a disciplinary proceeding. Principles and procedure 7. In the exercise of its function s under this Act, the Committee shall abide by the principles and procedures set out in this Act and the Code of Ethics. Proceedings in camera 8. The proceedings of the Committee shall be in camera. 

8 Laws of Malaysia ACT 703 Enquiry 9. (1) The proceedings of the Committee shall not be a trial but an enquiry as regards the breach of any provisions of the Code of Ethics committed by a judge referred to it by the Chief Justice of the Federal Court. (2) The Evidence Act 1950 [ Act 56 ] shall not apply to proceedings of the Committee. Disclosure of interest 10. (1) If the Chairman or an y member of the Committee has a direct or indirect inter est in any di sciplinary proceeding, he shall disclose to the Committee the fact of his interest and the nature of that interest. (2) A disclosure under subsecti on (1) shall be recorded in the minutes of the proceeding in which the disclosur e was made an d, after the disclosure, the Chairman or the member shall not take part in the deliberation or decision of the Committee. Meetings of the Committee 11. The Committee shall meet o n such dates and at such places and times as the Chairman may determine. Quorum 12. The Chairman and not less th an two members of the Committee shall form the quorum for every proceedings of the Committee. Adjournment of hearing before the Committee 13. (1) The Committee may adjourn the hearing from time to time. 

Judges’ Ethics Committee 9 (2) No written notice of an adjournment is required to be given to any party when the adjournment is made in the presence of that party. Records and minutes of proceedings 14. The Chairman shall c ause the records and minutes of proceedings of the Committee to be maintained and kept in a proper form. Decision of the Committee 15. (1) Where the Committee i s not unanimous on any question or matter to be determined, the de cision of the majority shall be deemed to be the decision of the Committee. (2) The Committee shall ensure that its decision in any disciplinary proceeding is commu nicated in writing to the judge who is the subject of the disciplinary proceedings. (3) Notwithstanding any prov ision in any other written law, the decision of the Committ ee shall be final and conclusive and shall not be challenged, appealed against, reviewed, quashed or called in question in any court on any ground, and no court shall have jurisdiction to entertain or determine any suit, application, question or proceeding on any ground regarding the validity of such decision. ________________________________ 

10 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 703 JUDGES’ ETHICS COMMITTEE ACT 2010 LIST OF AMENDMENTS Amending law Short title In force from - NIL - 

11 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 703 JUDGES’ ETHICS COMMITTEE ACT 2010 LIST OF SECTIONS AMENDED Section Amending authority In force from - NIL -