1National Association of Women’s Institutes of Malaysia Incorporation LAWS OF MALAYSIA REPRINT Act 510 NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF WOMEN’S INSTITUTES OF MALAYSIA INCORPORATION ACT 1958 Incorporating all amendments up to 1 January 2006 PUBLISHED BY THE COMMISSIONER OF LAW REVISION, MALAYSIA UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF THE REVISION OF LAWS ACT 1968 IN COLLABORATION WITH PERCETAKAN NASIONAL MALAYSIA BHD 2006

2 NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF WOMEN’S INSTITUTES OF MALAYSIA INCORPORATION ACT 1958 First enacted … ... ... .. .………… 1958 (Ord. No. 37 of 1958) Revised … …………………… 1993 (Act 510 w.e.f. 8 October 1993) PREVIOUS R EPRINT First Reprint ... ... ... ... ... 2002

3 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 510 NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF WOMEN’S INSTITUTES OF MALAYSIA INCORPORATION ACT 1958 ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS Section 1. Short title and application 2. Interpretation 3. Incorporation of the National Association of Women’s Institutes of Malaysia and powers of the Corporation 4. Objects of the Corporation 5. Constitution of Central Council 6. First members of Central Council 7. Use of corporate seal 8. Register of members 9. Powers of Central Council 10. Vesting of property 11. Payment of debts and liabilities 12. Application of income 13. Liability of members 14. Accounts and annual report 15. Saving of rights

4 Laws of Malaysia ACT 510

5National Association of Women’s Institutes of Malaysia Incorporation LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 510 NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF WOMEN’S INSTITUTES OF MALAYSIA INCORPORATION ACT 1958 An Act to incorporate the National Association of Women’s Institutes of Malaysia. [28 August 1958 ] Short title and application 1. (1) This Act may be cited as the National Association of Women’s Institutes of Malaysia (Incorporation) Act 1958. (2) This Act shall apply to the States of *Peninsular Malaysia only. Interpretation 2. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires— “Association” means the National Association of Women’s Institutes of Malaysia registered as a society under the Societies Act 1966 [ Act 335 ]; “Central Council” means the Central Council constituted in accordance with section 5; “Corporation” means the body incorporated under the name of “National Association of Women’s Institutes of Malaysia” by this Act. Incorporation of the National Association of Women’s Institutes of Malaysia and powers of the Corporation 3. The persons now members of the voluntary association known as the National Association of Women’s Institutes of Malaysia and all such persons as may hereafter become members of the Corporation pursuant to this Act or of rules and by-laws made thereunder shall *NOTE—All references to “West Malaysia” shall be construed as reference to “Peninsular Malaysia”— see the Interpretation (Amendment) Act 1997 [ Act A996 ], subsection 5(2).

6 Laws of Malaysia ACT 510 be a body corporate by the name of the National Association of Women’s Institutes of Malaysia and by the same name shall have perpetual succession and may enter into contracts, and may acquire, purchase, take, hold and enjoy movable and immovable property of every description, and may convey, transfer, assign, surrender and yield up, charge, mortgage, demise, reassign or otherwise dispose of, or deal with, any movable or immovable property vested in the Corporation upon such terms as to the Corporation may deem fit, and by the same name may sue and be sued in all courts and in all manner of actions and suits and may do all other matters and things incidental or appertaining to a body corporate. Objects of the Corporation 4. The objects of the Corporation are to provide an organization which shall be open, without any discrimination on the grounds of religion, race or politics, to all women and girls resident in Malaysia to enable women and girls, particularly those in rural areas, to take an effective part in the life and development of the community and generally to do all such things as the Corporation or its Central Council may deem incidental or conducive to the attainment of that object. Constitution of Central Council 5. The affairs of the Corporation shall be administered by a Central Council to be constituted in accordance with the rules and by-laws for the time being of the Corporation. First members of Central Council 6. The first members of the Central Council shall be those ladies who at the date of the coming into force of this Act are the members of the Executive Committee of the Association. Use of corporate seal 7. (1) The Corporation shall have a common seal, and such seal may from time to time be broken, changed, altered and made anew as to the Corporation deems fit. (2) All deeds, documents and other instruments requiring the seal of the Corporation shall be sealed with the seal of the Corporation pursuant to a resolution of the Central Council to that effect, in the presence of the Chairman or a Vice-Chairman of the Central Council, and of the Secretary of the same, or some other person

7National Association of Women’s Institutes of Malaysia Incorporation authorized by the Central Council to act in that behalf, who shall sign every such deed, document or other instrument to which such seal is affixed, and such signing shall be sufficient evidence that such seal was duly and properly affixed and that the same is the lawful seal of the Association. Register of members 8. The Central Council shall cause a register to be kept in which every person who is at the date of the coming into force of this Act a member of the Association or who may thereafter become a duly admitted member of the Corporation shall have her name inscribed and in which shall be recorded such other matters as may from time to time be determined by the Central Council. The register may be kept in such number of parts as the Central Council may from time to time decide and the duty of keeping parts of the register may be delegated to any member or official of the Corporation. Powers of Central Council 9. It shall be lawful for the Central Council from time to time to make, alter or revoke such rules and by-laws as it may deem expedient for the management of the affairs of the Corporation and the accomplishment of its objects and all such rules and by-laws shall be binding at all times upon the members for the time being of the Corporation. Vesting of property 10. On the coming into force of this Act all and every property belonging to the Association, whether held in the name of the Association or in the name or names of any person or persons in trust for the Association, shall be and the same is hereby vested in the Corporation, and the same, together with all after-acquired property movable or immovable, and all subscriptions, contributions, donations, fines, amounts of loans and advances received or to be received shall be held by the Corporation for the purposes of this Act and subject to the rules for the time being of the Corporation. Payment of debts and liabilities 11. All debts and liabilities of the Association existing at the time of the coming into force of this Act shall be paid by the Corporation, and all debts due to and subscriptions and contributions payable to the Association shall be paid to the Corporation for the purposes of this Act.

8 Laws of Malaysia ACT 510 Application of income 12. The income and property of the Corporation, whencesoever derived, shall be applied solely towards the promotion of the aforesaid objects of the Corporation and no portion thereof shall be paid or transferred directly or indirectly by way of dividend, bonus or otherwise howsoever by way of profit to the members of the Corporation: Provided that nothing herein contained shall prevent the payment in good faith of remuneration to any officers or servants of the Corporation or to any members of the Corporation in return for any services actually rendered to the Corporation. Liability of members 13. The liability of each member of the Corporation in respect of the transactions of the Corporation shall in no case exceed the amount of such annual subscriptions as may be due from such member to the Corporation. Accounts and annual report 14. True accounts shall be kept of the sums of money received and expended by the Corporation. Once in every year the accounts of the Central Council shall be examined and their correctness ascertained by one or more properly qualified auditor or auditors. Copies of the accounts shall be furnished by the Central Council to the principal association of Women’s Institutes in each State. An annual report shall be prepared by the Central Council in respect of every year and published by it. Saving of rights 15. Nothing in this Act shall affect the rights of the Yang di-Pertuan Agong, the Rulers or the Yang di-Pertua Negeri or of any body politic or corporate or of any other persons except such as are mentioned in this Act and those claiming by, from or under them.

9National Association of Women’s Institutes of Malaysia Incorporation LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 510 NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF WOMEN’S INSTITUTES OF MALAYSIA INCORPORATION ACT 1958 LIST OF AMENDMENTS Amending law Short title In force from – NIL –

10 Laws of Malaysia ACT 510 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 510 NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF WOMEN’S INSTITUTES OF MALAYSIA INCORPORATION ACT 1958 LIST OF SECTIONS AMENDED Section Amending authority In force from – NIL – DICETAK OLEH PERCETAKAN NASIONAL MALAYSIA BERHAD, KUALA LUMPUR BAGI PIHAK DAN DENGAN PERINTAH KERAJAAN MALAYSIA