LAWS OF MALAYSIA ONLINE VERSION OF UPDATED TEXT OF REPRINT Act 378 STAMP ACT 1949 As at 1 January 2024 This text is ONLY AN UPDATED TEXT of the Stamp Act 1949 by the Attorney General’s Chambers. Unless and until reprinted pursuant to th e powers of the Commissioner of Law Revision under subsection 14(1) of the Revision of Laws Act 1968 [Act 1 ], this text is NOT AN AUTHENTIC TEXT. 

2 STAMP ACT 1949 First enacted … … … ... 1949 (F.M Ordinance No. 59 of 1949) Revised … … … ... 1989 (Act 378 w.e.f. 2 January 1990) Latest amendment made by Act 851 which came into operation on … … … ... 1 January 2024; see section 51 of Act 851 PREVIOUS REPRINTS First Reprint … … … … … … … 2001 Second Reprint … … … … … … … 2006 

 3 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 378 STAMP ACT 1949 ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS PART I PRELIMINARY Section 1. Short title and application 2. Interpretation 3. Collector and Deputy Collectors of Stamp Duties 3A. Powers of Collector PART II PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO INSTRUMENTS GENERALLY Liability of Instruments to Duty 4. Instruments chargeable with duty 4A. Stamp duty on instruments executed outside Malaysia effecting transfers of property in Malaysia Payment of Duty 5. All facts and circumstances to be set out 5A. (Deleted) 6. Instrument relating to distinct matters 

4 Laws of Malaysia ACT 378 Section 7. Mode of paying and denoting duty 8. (Deleted) 9. Authorized person to compound instrument 10. How instruments are to be written and stamped 11. Where duty chargeable depends on duty paid on another instrument 11A. Replica 12. Duplicate and counterparts Valuation for Duty 12A. Assessment of the value of property under transfer or settlement 13. Currency and securities 14. Instruments reserving interest 14A. Principal securities in syariah financing PART III PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO PARTICULAR INSTRUMENTS 15. Relief from stamp duty in case of reconstructions or amalgamations of companies 15A. Relief from stamp duty in case of transfer of property between associated companies 16. Voluntary conveyance inter vivos 17. How transfer for debts, stocks, securities, future payments and further consideration to be charged 18. Duties on foreclosure orders 19. Valuation in case of annuity 20. Direction as to duty in case of certain conveyances 20A. Exchange of real property 20B. Vesting or transfer of an undivided interest in property 

 Stamp 5 Section 21. Certain contracts to be chargeable as conveyances on sale 22. Sale of annuity or right not before in existence 23. What is to be deemed a conveyance, not being a sale or mortgage 24. Leases, how to be charged in respect of produce, etc. 25. Directions as to duty upon leases, etc. 26. Direction as to duty upon transfer of stock 27. (Deleted) 28. Security for future advances, how to be charged 29. (Deleted) 29A. Directions as to duty upon a primary or principal security 30. Directions as to sea policy 31. Legal alteration in sea policies may be made 32. Directions as to certain contract notes 32A. Obligation to execute contract note PART IV LIABILITY FOR PAYMENT OF DUTY 33. Duty by whom payable 34. (Deleted) 35. Exemptions PART V ADJUDICATION AS TO STAMPS 36. Mode of adjudication as to proper stamp 36A. Initial duty 36AA. Advance duty 36B. Additional duty 36C. Where duty chargeable is equal or lower than advance duty paid and refund of advance duty paid in excess 

6 Laws of Malaysia ACT 378 Section 36D. 37. Finality of assessment Certificate by Collector 38. Exception to sections 36, 36A, 36AA, 36B, 36C and 37 38A. Notice of objection 39. Appeal to High Court 40. Time of stamping after adjudication PART VI OF THE TIME OF STAMPING INSTRUMENTS 41. Instruments executed in Malaysia 42. Instruments executed out of Malaysia 43. Bills, cheques or notes drawn out of Malaysia 44. Bills of exchange and cheques accepted or payable outside Malaysia 45. Power of drawee to stamp bills or cheques 46. Transfers of shares 47. Stamping of instruments after execution 47A. Penalty for late stamping 48. Denoting penalty 49. Persons liable to penalty 50. Penalty, how recoverable 50A. Error in assessment, etc. PART VII INSTRUMENTS NOT DULY STAMPED 51. Examination and impounding of instruments 52. Instruments not duly stamped inadmissible in evidence 

 Stamp 7 Section 53. Instruments impounded how dealt with 54. (Deleted) 55. Agreements evidenced by letters how stamped 56. Recovery of duty and penalty PART VIII ALLOWANCE FOR SPOILED STAMPS 57. Allowance for spoiled stamps 58. Allowance for misused stamps 59. Allowance, how to be made 59A. Stamp to include official receipt PART IX OFFENCES AND PENALTIES 60. (Deleted) 60A. (Deleted) 61. Penalty for not setting forth all the facts and circumstances 62. (Deleted) 63. Penalty for executing and signing documents not duly stamped 64. Penalty for failure to execute and transmit contract note 65. Penalty for post-dating bills 66. (Deleted) 67. Penalty for not making out policy other than on sea insurance or making one not duly stamped 68. Penalty for assuring on sea insurance unless under policy duly stamped 69. Penalty for issuing share warrant, etc., not duly stamped 70. (Deleted) 71. (Deleted) 

8 Laws of Malaysia ACT 378 Section 72. (Deleted) 72A. Penalty relating to stamp certificates 73. (Deleted) 74. Fraud in relation to duty 74A. Recovery from persons leaving Malaysia 74B. Leaving Malaysia without payment of duties, etc. 75. Institution and conduct of prosecution PART X MISCELLANEOUS 76. Books, etc., in the custody of public officers may be inspected without fee 77. Collector may administer oaths 77A. Electronic medium 77B. Electronic assessment and stamping of instruments 77C. Tax identification number 78. Revision of acts of Collector 79. Responsibility for loss or damage 80. Power to exempt, reduce or remit duties 80A. Fund for Tax Refund 80B. Power of Collector to remit duties 81. Power to compound duties in case of issue of bonds, etc. 82. Rules 83. Repeal FIRST SCHEDULE SECOND SCHEDULE (Deleted) THIRD SCHEDULE FOURTH SCHEDULE FIFTH SCHEDULE (Deleted) SIXTH SCHEDULE 

9 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 378 STAMP ACT 1949 An Act relating to stamp duties. [Peninsular Malaysia— 5 December 1949; Sabah and Sarawak— 1 October 1989, P.U. (B) 441/1989;] PART I PRELIMINARY Short title and application 1. (1) This Act may be cited as the Stamp Act 1949. (2) This Act shall apply throughout Malaysia. Interpretation 2. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires— “banker” means— (a) any person licensed under the Financial Services Act 2013 [Act 758] to carry on a banking business in Malaysia; (b) any person licensed under the Islamic Financial Services Act 2013 [Act 759] to carry on an Islamic banking business in Malaysia; or (c) a development financial institution prescribed under the Development Financial Institutions Act 2002 [Act 618]; 

10 Laws of Malaysia ACT 378 “bond” means— (a) any instrument whereby a person obliges himself to pay money to another on condition that the obligat ion shall be void if a specified act is performed or is not performed, as the case may be; (b) any instrument, attested by a witness and not payable to order or bearer, whereby a person obliges himself to pay money to another; “charge” means any instrument whereby, for the purpose of securing the payment of any definite and certain sum of money advanced or lent at the time or previously due or foreborne to be paid or for the repayment of money to be thereafter lent, advanced or paid, or which may become due u pon any account current, together with any sum already advanced or due, or without, as the case may be, or for the performance of any contract or engagement, one person creates a right over or charge upon any specified property; and includes any instrument which purports to create or in which any person agrees to create any such right or charge; “cheque” means a bill of exchange drawn on a specified banker and not expressed to be payable otherwise than on demand; “Collector” includes the Collector of Stamp Duties and every Deputy Collector of Stamp Duties appointed under section 3; “continuation clause” in a policy of sea insurance made for time means an agreement to the following or the like effect, namely, that in the event of the ship being at sea or t he voyage otherwise not completed on the expiration of the policy, the subject matter of the insurance shall be held covered until the arrival of the ship, or for a reasonable time thereafter not exceeding thirty days; “contract note” means the note sent by a dealer or agent to his principal, or by any person who by way of business deals, or holds himself out as dealing, as a principal in any stock or marketable securities, advising the principal, or the vendor or purchaser, as the case may be, of the sale or purchase of any stock or marketable security, but does not include a note sent by a dealer or agent to his 

 Stamp 11 principal where the principal is himself acting as dealer or agent for a principal and is himself a person who bona fide carries on the business of a dealer in Malaysia; “conveyance on sale” includes every instrument and every decree or order of any Court, whereby any property, or any estate or interest in any property, upon the sale thereof is transferred to or vested in a purchaser or any other person on his behalf or by his direction; “dealer” mean s any person licensed under the *Securities Industry Act 1983 [ Act 280] to carry on the business of dealing in securities in Malaysia and is recognized as a member company by a stock exchange; “die” includes any plate, type, tool or implement whatever used under the direction of the Collector for expressing or denoting any duty or rate of duty, or the fact that any duty or rate of duty or penalty has been paid, or that an instrument is duly stamped, or is not chargeable with any duty or for denoting any fee, and also any part of any such plate, type, tool or implement; “duly stamped”, as applied to an instrument, means — (a) the instrument bears an adhesive or impressed stamp of not less than the proper amount or the amount of initial duty or the amount of advance duty paid under subsection 37(1) and that such stamp has been affixed or used in accordance with the law for the time being in force; (b) any official receipt for the proper amount or the amount of initial duty or the amount of advance duty is affixed to the instrument; (c) a stamp certificate for the proper amount or the amount of initial duty or the amount of advance duty is attached to the instrument if the instrument is stamped through an electronic medium; or *NOTE―The Securities Industry Act 1983 [ Act 280] was repealed by the Capital Market and Services Act 2007 [Act 671]—see section 381 of Act 671. 

12 Laws of Malaysia ACT 378 (d) the instrument is stamped by means of digital stamping for the proper amount or the amount of initial duty or the amount of advance duty; “duty” means any stamp duty for the time being chargeable under this Act or under any written law; “equitable mortgage” means an agreement or memorandum, under hand only, relating to the deposit of any title deeds or instruments constituting or being evidence of the title to any property whatever (other than stock or marketable securities and a letter of hypothecation), or creating a charge on such property but does not include a registered charge on land in any State; “executed” and “execution”, used with reference to instruments not under seal, mean “signed” and “signature”; “foreign currency loan” mean s any loan denominated wholly in currencies other than the Ringgit; “impressed stamp” means a stamp impressed by means of a die, or an adhesive stamp over which an impression, denoting the date of such impression, has been made by the proper officer by means of a die; “instrument” includes every written document; “insurer” means any person licensed under the *Takaful Act 1984 [Act 312] or the **Insurance Act 1996 [Act 553] to carry on an insurance business in Malaysia and includes a reinsurer; “lease” means a lease of immovable property, and includes— (a) any undertaking in writing to cultivate, occupy, or pay or deliver rent for, immovable property; (b) any instrument by which tolls, rents or profits of any description are let to farm; *NOTE―The Takaful Act 1984 [ Act 312] was repealed by the Islamic Financial Services Act 2013 [Act 759]—see section 282 of Act 759. **NOTE―The Insurance Act 1996 [ Act 553 ] was repealed by the Financial Services Act 2013 [Act 758]—see section 271 of Act 758. 

 Stamp 13 (c) any writing on an application for a lease intended to signify that the application is granted; “letter of hypothecation” means any instrument creating a pledge or lien over goods in consideration of monies advanced or to be advanced or to secure the payment or repayment of monies; “marketable security” means a security of such a description as to be capable of being sold or negotiated in any stock market in Malaysia or elsewhere; “money” includes all sums whether expressed in the ringgit or in any other currency; “mortgage” means a security by way of mortgage for the payment of any definite and certain sum of money advanced or lent at the time, or previously due or foreborne to be paid, being payable, or for the repayment of money to be thereafter lent, advanced or paid, or which may become due upon an account current, together with any sum already advanced or due, or without, as the case may be; and includes— (a) any conveyance of any property in trust to be sold or otherwise converted into money intended only as a security, and redeemable before the sale or other disposal thereof either by express stipulation or otherwise; (b) any instrument in writing for defeating or making redeemable, or explaining or qualifying any conveyance of property, apparently absolute, but intended only as a security; (c) any agreement for a mortgage or any agreement (other than an agreement chargeable with duty as an equitable mortgage), contract, or bond accompanied with a deposit of title deeds or with other instruments evidencing a right to property, for making a mortgage or any other security or conveyance as aforesaid of any property comprised in the title deeds or other instruments or for pledging or charging the same as a security; and (d) any deed operating as a mortgage of any stock or marketable security; 

14 Laws of Malaysia ACT 378 “official receipt” means a receipt issued by or on behalf of the Collector for payment of stamp duties; “paper” includes every material upon which words or figures can be expressed; “policy of insurance” includes every writing whereby any contract of insurance is made or agreed to be made or is evidenced, and the expression “insurance” includes assurance; “policy of sea insurance”— (a) means any insurance, including re -insurance, made upon any ship or vessel, whether for marine or inland navigation, or upon the machinery, tackle or furniture of any ship or vessel or upon any goods, merchandise or property of any description whatever on board of any ship or vessel or upon the freight of or any other interest which may be lawfully insured in or relating to any ship or vessel; and (b) includes any insurance of goods, merchandise or property for any transit which includes, not only a sea risk under paragraph (a), but also any other risk incidental to the transit insured from the commencement of the transit to the ultimate destination covered by the insurance; “power of attorney” means any instrument except a warrant to act as a solicitor in any judicial proceeding, empowering a specified person to act in the stead of the person executing it; “promissory note” means any document or writing (except a bank note) containing a promise to pay any sum of money and includes a note promising the payment of any sum of money out of any particular fund which may or may not be available or upon any condition or contingency which may or may not be performed or happen; “property” includes movable or immovable property and any estate or interest in any property movable or immovable, whether in possession, reversion, remainder or contingency, and any debt, and anything in act ion, and any other right or interest in the nature of property which is capable of being disposed of and has a value in it; 

 Stamp 15 “settlement” means any non -testamentary disposition in writing whether made voluntarily or upon a good or valuable consideration other than a bona fide pecuniary consideration whereby any definite and certain property is settled or agreed to be settled in any manner for any purpose whatsoever; “small and medium enterprise” means— (a) in relation to the manufacturing activities, an enter prise with sales turnover not exceeding fifty million ringgit or full-time employees not exceeding two hundred people; or (b) in relation to the services, and other sectors, an enterprise with sales turnover not exceeding twenty million ringgit or full-time employees not exceeding seventy-five people; “stamp certificate” means a certificate that is issued electronically in respect of any instrument chargeable with duty denoting the amount of duty paid in respect of that instrument; “stock” includes any share in the capital stock or funded debt of any corporation, company or society in Malaysia or elsewhere and any share in the stocks or funds of the Government of Malaysia or of any other Government or country; “writing” or “written” includes any handwriting , typewriting, printing, electronic record or transmission which is in an electronically readable form. Collector and Deputy Collectors of Stamp Duties 3. (1) The Director General of Inland Revenue referred to in subsection 134(1) of the Income Tax Act 1967 [Act 53] shall be the Collector of Stamp Duties. (2) The Minister of Finance may, by notification in the Gazette, appoint such number of Deputy Collectors of Stamp Duties as he thinks fit, for the purpose of carrying out the provisions of this Act. 

16 Laws of Malaysia ACT 378 Powers of Collector 3A. (1) The Collector may by notice in writing require any person to produce any instrument for the purpose of ascertaining whether it is chargeable with duty under this Act and, if so, whether that duty has been paid. (2) The Collector shall, if he considers it necessary in the execution of his duties under this Act, at all times have full and free access to all lands, buildings and places, and all books and documents, whether in the custody or under the control of a public officer or a body corporate or any other person whatsoever, for the purpose of ascertaining the market value of any property or of ascertaining any facts or inspecting any books or documents which the Collector considers necessary or relevant for the purposes of this Act, or considers likely to provide any information otherwise required for the purposes of this Act, and may, without fee or reward, make extracts from or copies of any such books or documents. (3) The Collector may take possession of any such books or documents where in his opinion— (a) the inspection or copying thereof or extraction therefrom cannot reasonably be performed without taking possession thereof; (b) the books or documents may be interfered with, concealed or destroyed unless possession thereof is taken; or (c) the books or documents may be required as evidence in any proceeding instituted or commenced under or for any of the purposes of this Act. (4) For the purpose only of ascertaining the market value of any property, the Collector may in writing authorize any valuer employed by the Government, whether he be a public officer or a person privately practising as a valuer, to exercise any of the powers conferred upon the Collector by this section. (5) Any person who obstructs or hinders the Collector, or any valuer duly authorized by the Collector, in the exercise of any of his powers 

 Stamp 17 under this section, or who refuses or fails to comply with a notice under subsection (1) or with any direction given in good faith by the Collector or any such valuer for any of the purposes of this section, shall be liable to a fine not exceeding two hundred and fifty ringgit. PART II PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO INSTRUMENTS GENERALLY Liability of Instruments to Duty Instruments chargeable with duty 4. (1) Subject to this Act and subject to the exemptions contained in this Act and in any written law for the time being in force, the several instruments specified in the First Schedule shall, from and after the commencement of this Act, be chargeable with the several duti es specified in such Schedule. (2) Nothing in this Act shall render liable to additional duty any instrument whereon duty is expressly imposed under any other written law in force in Malaysia. (3) Where in the case of any sale, lease, charge, settlement, exchange or partition several instruments are employed for completing the transaction, the principal instrument only shall be chargeable with the duty prescribed in the First Schedule for the conveyance, lease, charge, settlement or partition and each of the other instruments shall be chargeable with a duty of ten ringgit only; and the parties may determine for themselves which of the instruments so employed shall, for the purpose of this subsection, be deemed to be the principal instrument. (4) The duties imposed by such Schedule may be cancelled, varied or added to by a resolution of the House of Representatives. 

18 Laws of Malaysia ACT 378 Stamp duty on instruments executed outside Malaysia effecting transfers of property in Malaysia 4A. (1) Any instrument executed outside Malaysia and purporting to effect a transfer of any immovable property, or of any movable property other than debentures issued by, or shares in, a company, shall, if the property intended to be transferred is situated in any part of Malaysia, be chargeable w ith stamp duty in accordance with the First Schedule, and unless the instrument of transfer, or a counterpart or duplicate thereof which shall be chargeable with the like duty as if it were the original, is brought into Malaysia and the proper stamp duty payable thereon as if the original had been executed in Malaysia is paid, the transfer shall not take effect. (2) Where any instrument executed outside Malaysia and purporting to effect a transfer of debentures issued by, or shares in, a company incorporat ed in Malaysia under section 16 of the *Companies Act 1965 [ Act 125] or a foreign company registered in Malaysia under section 332 of that Act is produced or delivered to the company for registration, in the case of a company incorporated in Malaysia, in a register of debenture holders or a register of members of the company kept in Malaysia in pursuance of section 70 or 158 of that Act or, in the case of a foreign company, in a branch register of the foreign company kept in Malaysia in pursuance of sectio n 342 of that Act, the company or foreign company shall, unless the instrument of transfer bears a stamp, duly cancelled in accordance with this Act, showing— (a) that the proper stamp duty has been paid thereon in accordance with the First Schedule; or (b) such other evidence of payment of the proper stamp duty as this Act may allow, refuse to register the transfer and the transfer shall not take effect. (3) Where any instrument of transfer of any of the descriptions mentioned in subsection (2) is registered otherwise than in accordance *NOTE—The Companies Act 1965 [ Act 125] has been re pealed by the Companies Act 2016 [ Act 777] —see section 620 of Act 777. 

 Stamp 19 with that subsection, the company or foreign company and the officer of the company or foreign company responsible for making the entry in the register shall be liable to a fine not exceeding two hundred and fifty ringgit. (4) In this section— (a) (Omitted); (b) expressions which are defined in the *Companies Act 1965 shall have the same meaning as in that Act. Payment of Duty All facts and circumstances to be set out 5. All the facts and circumstances affecting the liability of a ny instrument to duty or the amount of the duty with which any instrument is chargeable are to be fully and truly set forth in the instrument, and the Collector may require such evidence to be furnished as may be reasonably necessary to prove that all such facts and circumstances are truly set forth. 5A. (Deleted by Act 661). Instrument relating to distinct matters 6. Except where express provision to the contrary is made by this Act or by any other written law— (a) an instrument containing or relating to several distinct matters shall be separately and distinctly charged, as if it were a separate instrument, with duty in respect of each of the matters; *NOTE—This Act has been repealed by Companies Act 2016 [Act 777]—see subsection 620(1) of Act 777 

20 Laws of Malaysia ACT 378 (b) an instrument made for any consideration in respect of which it is chargeable with ad valorem duty, and also for any further or other valuable consideration or considerations, shall be separately and distinctly charged, as if it were a separate instrument, with duty in respect of each of the considerations. Mode of paying and denoting duty 7. (1) Subject to any rules made under paragraph 82 (b), all duties with which any instruments are chargeable under this Act shall be paid, and payment shall be indicated on such instrument by— (a) (Deleted by Act 851); (aa) (Deleted by Act 851); (b) affixing an official receipt to such instrument; (c) attaching a stamp certificate to such instrument; or (d) means of digital stamping. (2)–(8) (Deleted by Act 851). 8. (Deleted by Act 851). Authorized person to compound instrument 9. (1) The Collector, may by notification in the Gazette, authorize any person including any banker, dealer or insurer, to compound for the payment of duty on unstamped instrument subject to the condition that the instrument be drawn or drawn up and issued on a form to be supplied or adopted by the said person. (2) The said authorized persons shall levy upon charge to the person to whom such instruments referred to in subsection (1) are issued the stamp duty mentioned in the First Schedule. 

 Stamp 21 (3) The said authorized person shall pay on the 1st day of each calendar month in each year to the Collector the amount due and collected thereon as duties on such unstamped instruments and where he fails to pay the amount on each date specified or within fourteen days immediately thereafter, he shall in addition to the amount due pay a further amount of two hundred ringgit or ten per centum of the amount due whichever is the greater and any amount due shall be recoverable as a debt due to the Government. (4) The said authorized person shall deposit with the Coll ector, as security for the due payment to the Collector of any moneys payable under subsection (2), such sum, if any, as the Minister of Finance may direct. (5) Instruments in respect of which payment of duty by way of composition has been made under this section, notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, shall be deemed to be duly stamped. (6) Where any person has been authorized to compound for the payment of duty on unstamped instrument under subsection (1), the Collector or any person authorize d by him in writing, may, at all reasonable times, inspect any stocks of unstamped instrument held by such person and any books, records and documents kept by him in connection with the issue of such instrument. (7) For the purpose of subsection (6), the p erson mentioned in subsection (1) shall keep and retain the books, records and documents in connection with the issue of such instruments referred to in subsection (1) or a period of seven years from the year in which such instruments are issued. How instruments are to be written and stamped 10. (1) Every instrument written upon stamped paper is to be written in such manner, and every instrument partly or wholly written before being stamped shall be so stamped, that the stamp may appear on the face of the instrument and cannot be used for or applied to any other instrument written upon the same piece of paper. 

22 Laws of Malaysia ACT 378 (2) If more than one instrument be written upon the same piece of paper, every one of the instruments shall be separately and distinctly stamped with the duty with which it is chargeable. Where duty chargeable depends on duty paid on another instrument 11. Where the duty with which an instrument is chargeable, or its exemption from duty, depends in any manner upon the duty actually paid in respect of another instrument, the payment of such last-mentioned duty shall, upon application to the Collector for that purpose and production of both the instruments, be denoted upon such first-mentioned instrument by indorsement under the hand of the Collecto r or in such other manner, if any, as may be prescribed by rules made under this Act. Replica 11A. (1) Where a replicate of an instrument is presented to the Collector, the replicate of such instrument shall not be deemed to be duly stamped unless it can be shown to the satisfaction of the Collector that all the facts and circumstances affecting the liability of the original instrument to duty, and the amount of the duty chargeable thereon has been paid. (2) For the purpose of subsection (1), the Collector shall indorse on the replicate of the instrument that full and proper duty with which the original is chargeable had been paid upon payment of a fee of one hundred ringgit for each replicate of an instrument. Duplicate and counterparts 12. The dupli cate or counterpart of an instrument chargeable with duty (except the counterpart of an instrument chargeable as a lease, such counterpart not being executed by or on behalf of any lessor or grantor) shall not be deemed to be duly stamped unless— (a) it is stamped as an original instrument; 

 Stamp 23 (b) it appears by a certificate indorsed by the Collector on the duplicate or counterpart that full and proper duty has been paid on the original instrument; (c) there is denoted on the stamp certificate issued for the duplicate or counterpart that payment of the stamp duty has been paid in respect of the original instrument; or (d) there is denoted by means of digital stamping on the duplicate or counterpart that full and proper duty has been paid in respect of the original instrument. Valuation for Duty Assessment of the value of property under transfer or settlement 12A. Where an instrument is chargeable with duty under Item 32(a) of the First Schedule, the date for determining the market value of any property being transferred, settled or gifted shall be— (a) in the case of a settlement or gift, the date of execution of the instrument of trust or settlement or gift; (b) in the case of a transfer implementing a sale under a duly stamped agreement of sale and purchase, the date of execution of that agreement; (c) in the case of a transfer of any property granted by a statutory body, a local authority or any co-operative society registered under any laws relating to co-operative societies, the date when the final terms of transfer had been communicated to the transferee, and in the case of subsequent resale of that property, the date of consent by the statutory body or local authority or the board of the co-operative society for that resale; (d) in the case of a transfer under a duly stamped sa le and purchase agreement where financial arrangements have been made in accordance with the Syariah, the date of execution of agreement; or 

24 Laws of Malaysia ACT 378 (e) in any other case, the date of execution of the instrument of transfer. Currency and securities 13. (1) Where an instrument is chargeable with ad valorem duty in respect of— (a) any money expressed in any currency other than ringgit; (b) any stock or marketable or other security, the duty shall be calculated on the value, on the day of the date of the instrument or on the day it is stamped if executed out of Malaysia, of the money in ringgit according to the current rate of exchange, or of the stock or security according to the average price thereof or, if there be no price, according to the value thereof. (2) Where an instrument contains a statement of current rate of exchange or average price, as the case may require, and is stamped in accordance with such statement, it shall, so far as regards the subject matter of such statement, be presumed, until the contrary is proved, to be duly stamped. Instruments reserving interest 14. When interest is expressly made payable by the terms of an instrument, such instrument shall not be chargeable with duty higher than that with which it would have been chargeable if no mentio n of interest had been made therein. Principal securities in syariah financing 14A. Where it is shown that a principal or primary security secures the repayment of moneys provided under a scheme of financing made according to the syariah, duty chargeabl e thereon shall be calculated on the principal amount provided by the financier or financing body. 

 Stamp 25 PART III PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO PARTICULAR INSTRUMENTS Relief from stamp duty in case of reconstructions or amalgamations of companies 15. (1) If in connection with a scheme for the reconstruction of any company or companies or the amalgamation of any companies it is shown to the satisfaction of the Collector that there exist the following conditions, that is to say: (a) that a company with limited liabilit y has been registered within six months before the commencement of this Act, or that a company with limited liability is to be registered, or that since the commencement of this Act a company has been incorporated by special written law, or that since the commencement of this Act or within six months before the commencement thereof the issued share capital of a company has been increased; (b) that the company (in this section referred to as “the transferee company”) is to be registered in Malaysia or has been incorporated in Malaysia or has increased its capital with a view to the acquisition either of the undertaking of, or of not less than ninety per centum of the issued share capital of, any particular existing company; (c) that the consideration for the acquis ition (except such part thereof as consists in the transfer to or discharge by the transferee company of liabilities of the existing company) consists as to not less than ninety per centum thereof— (i) where an undertaking is to be acquired, in the issue of shares in the transferee company to the existing company or to holders of shares in the existing company; or (ii) where shares are to be acquired, in the issue of shares in the transferee company to the holders of shares in 

26 Laws of Malaysia ACT 378 the existing company in exchange for the shares held by them in the existing company; then, subject to this section, stamp duty under Item 32 (a) or (b) in the First Schedule shall not be chargeable on any instrument made for the purposes of or in connection with the transfer of the undertak ing or shares: Provided that— (a) no such instrument shall be deemed to be duly stamped unless either it is stamped with the duty to which it would but for this section be liable or it has been brought to the Collector under section 36 and he has certified u nder section 37 either that the full duty with which it is chargeable has been paid, or that it is not chargeable with duty; and (b) in the case of an instrument made for the purposes of or in connection with a transfer to a company within the meaning of the *Companies Act 1965 the provisions of this subsection shall not apply unless the instrument is either— (i) executed within a period of twelve months from the date of the registration of the transferee company or the date of the resolution for the increase of the issued share capital of the transferee company, as the case may be; or (ii) made for the purpose of effecting a conveyance or transfer in pursuance of an agreement which has been filed, or particulars of which have been filed, with the Registrar of Compani es within the said period of twelve months. (2) (Deleted by Act 851). (3) A company shall not be deemed to be a particular existing company within the meaning of this section unless it is provided by the *NOTE —The Companies Act 1965 [ Act 125 ] has been repealed by the Companies Act 2016 [Act 777 ]—see section 620 of Act 777. 

 Stamp 27 memorandum of association of, or written law inco rporating, the transferee company that one of the objects for which the company is established is the acquisition of the undertaking of, or shares in, the existing company, or unless it appears from the resolution, or other authority for the increase of the capital of the transferee company that the increase is authorized for the purpose of acquiring the undertaking of, or shares in, the existing company. (4) Where a claim is made for exemption under this section, the Collector may require the delivery to him of a statutory declaration in such form as he may direct made by an advocate and solicitor, or, in the case of Sabah and Sarawak, an advocate, of the High Court, and of such further evidence, if any, as he deems necessary. (5) If— (a) where any claim for exemption from duty under this section has been allowed, it is subsequently found that any declaration or other evidence furnished in support of the claim was untrue in any material particular, or that the conditions specified in subsection (1) are not fulfilled in the reconstruction or amalgamation as actually carried out; (b) where shares in the transferee company have been issued to the existing company in consideration of the acquisition, the existing company within a period of three years from the date, as the case may be, of the registration or incorporation, or of the authority for the increase of the capital, of the transferee company ceases, otherwise than in consequence of reconstruction, amalgamation, liquidation or in compliance with Government policy on capital participation in industry to be the beneficial owner of the shares so issued to it; or (c) where any such exemption has been allowed in connection with the acquisition by the transferee company of shares in another company, the transferee company within a period of three years from the date of its registration or incorporation or of the authority for the increase of its capital, as the case may be, ceases, otherwise than in consequence of reconstruction, amalgamation or liquidation, to be the beneficial owner of the shares so acquired; 

28 Laws of Malaysia ACT 378 the exemption shall be deemed not to have been allowed and an amount equal to the duty remitted shall become payable forthwith, and shall be recoverable from the transferee company as a debt due to the Government, together with interest thereon at the rate of six per centum per annum, from the date on which the duty would have become chargeable if this section had not been passed. (6) If in the case of any scheme of reconstruction or amalgamation, the Collector is satisfied that at the proper time for making a claim for exemption from duty under subsection (1) there were in existence all the necessary conditions for such exemption other than the condition that not less than ninety per centum of the issued share cap ital of the existing company would be acquired by the transferee company, the Collector may, if it is proved to his satisfaction that not less than ninety per centum of the issued capital of the existing company has under the scheme been acquired within a period of six months from the earlier of the two following dates, that is to say— (a) the last day of the period of one month after the first allotment of shares made for the purposes of the acquisition; or (b) the date on which an invitation was issued to the shareholders of the existing company to accept shares in the transferee company, and on production of the instruments on which the duty has been paid, direct repayment to be made of such an amount of duty as would have been remitted if the said condition had been originally fulfilled. (6A) Where any claim for exemption from duty under this section has been allowed and any of the circumstances specified under subsection (5) occurs, each company which was a party to the instrument shall notify the Collector of the circumstances of the occurrence within thirty days from the date of the occurrence. (7) In this section, unless the context otherwise requires— (a) references to a company (other than that of the transferee company) or to the registration or incorpora tion of a company (other than that of the transferee company) shall 

 Stamp 29 be construed as references to a company wherever registered or incorporated; (b) references to the undertaking of an existing company include references to a part of the undertaking of an existing company; (c) the expression “shares” includes stock. Relief from stamp duty in case of transfer of property between associated companies 15A. (1) Stamp duty under Item 32 (a) or (b) in the First Schedule shall not be chargeable on any instrument to which this section applies: Provided that no such instrument shall be deemed to be duly stamped unless either it is stamped with the duty to which it would but for this section be liable or it has been brought to the Collector under section 36 and he has ce rtified under section 37 either that the full duty with which it is chargeable has been paid, or that it is not chargeable with duty. (2) This section applies to any instrument with respect to which it is shown to the satisfaction of the Collector— (a) that the effect is to transfer a beneficial interest in property from one company with limited liability to another such company, and that the companies are associated where one is the beneficial owner of not less than ninety percent of the issued share capital of the other, or that a third company with limited liability is the beneficial owner of not less than ninety per centum of the issued share capital of each of the aforesaid companies; (b) that the transfer of the property of the associated companies is to achieve greater efficiency in operation; and (c) that the company referred to as the transferee company under this section is incorporated in Malaysia. 

30 Laws of Malaysia ACT 378 (3) The ownership referred to in subsection (2) is ownership either directly or through another company or o ther companies, or partly directly and partly through another company or other companies, and the Sixth Schedule shall apply for the purposes of this section. (4) This section shall not apply to any instrument unless it is also shown to the satisfaction o f the Collector that the instrument was not executed in pursuance of or in connection with an arrangement under which— (a) the consideration, or any part of the consideration, for the transfer was to be provided or received, directly or indirectly, by a perso n other than a company which at the time of the execution of the instrument was associated within the meaning of this section with either the transferor or the transferee (meaning, respectively, the company from whom and the company to whom the beneficial interest was transferred); or (b) the said interest was previously transferred, directly or indirectly, by such a person; or (c) the transferor and the transferee were to cease to be associated within the meaning of this section by reason of a change in the perc entage of the issued share capital of the transferee in the beneficial ownership (within the meaning of this section) of the transferor or a third company within the period of three years from the date of the conveyance or transfer; or (d) the transferee company disposes of the property that it has acquired within three years from the date of the conveyance or transfer of the property, and, without prejudice to the generality of paragraph (a), an arrangement shall be treated as falling within at paragraph if it is one whereunder the transferor or the transferee, or a company associated with either as there-mentioned, was to be enabled to provide any of the consideration, or was to part with any of it, by or in consequence of the carrying out of a transaction or transactions involving, or any of them 

 Stamp 31 involving, a payment or other disposition by a person other than a company so associated. (5) Where any claim for exemption from duty under this section has been allowed, it is subsequently found that any declarati on or other evidence furnished in support of the claim is untrue, the exemption from duty shall be revoked and duty shall be chargeable, together with interest thereon at the rate of six per centum per annum, from the date on which the duty which the conve yance or transfer ought to be stamped with the proper amount of duty. (6) Where any claim for exemption from duty under this section has been allowed and any of the circumstances specified under subsection (4) occurs, each company which was a party to the instrument shall notify the Collector in writing of the circumstances of the occurrence within thirty days from the date of the occurrence. (7) Where a claim is made for exemption under this section, the Collector may require the delivery to him of a statutory declaration in such form as he may direct made by an advocate and solicitor, or, in the case of Sabah and Sarawak, an advocate, of the High Court, and of such further evidence, if any, as he deems necessary. Voluntary conveyance inter vivos 16. (1) Any conveyance or transfer operating as a voluntary disposition inter vivos shall be chargeable with the like stamp duty as if it were a conveyance or transfer on sale. (2) The Collector may be required to express his opinion under section 36 on any c onveyance or transfer operating as a voluntary disposition inter vivos, and no such conveyance or transfer shall be deemed to be duly stamped unless the Collector has expressed his opinion thereon in accordance with that section. (3) Any conveyance or tra nsfer, not being a disposition made in favour of a purchaser or incumbrancer or other person in good faith and for valuable consideration, shall, for the purposes of this section, be deemed to be a conveyance or transfer operating as a voluntary disposition inter vivos , and (except where marriage is the 

32 Laws of Malaysia ACT 378 consideration) the consideration for any conveyance or transfer shall not for this purpose be deemed to be valuable consideration where by reason of the inadequacy of the sum paid as consideration or other circumstances the conveyance or transfer confers a substantial benefit on the person to whom the property is conveyed or transferred. (4) A conveyance or transfer made for nominal consideration for the purpose of securing the repayment of an advance or loa n or made for effectuating the appointment of a new trustee or the retirement of a trustee, whether the trust is expressed or implied, or under which no beneficial interest passes in the property conveyed or transferred, or made to a beneficiary by a trust ee or other person in a fiduciary capacity under any trust, whether expressed or implied, shall not be charged with duty under this section, and this subsection shall have effect notwithstanding that the circumstances exempting the conveyance or transfer from charge under this section are not set forth in the conveyance or transfer. How transfer for debts, stocks, securities, future payments and further consideration to be charged 17. (1) Where any property is transferred— (a) in consideration, wholly or in part, of any debt or of any stock or marketable security; or (b) subject, either certainly or contingently, to the payment or transfer of any money or stock, whether being or constituting a charge or incumbrance upon the property or not, the instrument of t ransfer shall be chargeable with ad valorem duty calculated at the rates specified under Item 32(a) in the First Schedule upon either the value of the debt, stock or marketable security, as the case may be, or the market value of the property as on the dat e of execution, whichever be the greater. (2) Where the consideration, or any part of the consideration, for a transfer of property consists of any security other than a marketable security, the instrument of transfer shall be chargeable with ad valorem 

 Stamp 33 duty calculated at the rates specified under Item 32(a) in the First Schedule upon either the amount due upon the security for principal and interest or, in the case of a security given under a scheme of financing made according to the syariah, any sum due and payable in addition to the principal, or upon the market value of the property as on the date of execution, whichever be the greater. (3) A conveyance on sale made for any consideration in respect whereof it is chargeable with ad valorem duty, and in further consideration of a covenant by the purchaser to make, or of his having previously made, any substantial improvement of or addition to the property transferred to him or of any covenant relating to the subject -matter of the transfer, is not chargeab le, and shall be deemed not to have been chargeable, with any duty in respect of such further consideration. Duties on foreclosure orders 18. Subject to section 17, a decree or order for, or having the effect of an order for foreclosure in respect of mo rtgaged property shall be chargeable with duty as if it were a conveyance of such property on sale: Provided that— (a) the ad valorem stamp duty upon any such decree or order shall not exceed the duty on a sum equal to the value of the property to which the decree or order relates, and where the decree or order states that value such statement shall be conclusive for the purpose of determining the amount of the duty; and (b) where ad valorem stamp duty is paid upon such decree or order, any conveyance following upon such decree or order shall be exempt from the ad valorem stamp duty. 

34 Laws of Malaysia ACT 378 Valuation in case of annuity 19. (1) Where the consideration, or any part of the consideration, for a conveyance on sale consists of money payable periodically for a definite period not exceeding twenty years, so that the total amount to be paid can be previously ascertained, the conveyance shall be charged in respect of that consideration with ad valorem duty on such total amount. (2) Where the consideration, or any part of the c onsideration, for a conveyance on sale consists of money payable periodically for a definite period exceeding twenty years or in perpetuity, or for any indefinite period not terminable with life, the conveyance is to be charged in respect of that considera tion with ad valorem duty on the total amount which will or may, according to the terms of sale, be payable during the period of twenty years next after the day of the date of the instrument. (3) Where the consideration, or any part of the consideration, for a conveyance on sale consists of money payable periodically during any life or lives, the conveyance shall be charged in respect of that consideration with ad valorem duty on the amount which will or may, according to the terms of sale, be payable duri ng the period of twelve years next after the day of the date of the instrument. (4) No conveyance on sale chargeable with ad valorem duty in respect of any periodical payments, and containing also provision for securing the payments, shall be charged with any duty in respect of such provision, and no separate instrument made in that case for securing the payments is to be charged with any higher duty than ten ringgit. Direction as to duty in case of certain conveyances 20. (1) Where property contracted t o be sold for one consideration for the whole is conveyed to the purchaser in separate parts or parcels by different instruments, the consideration shall be apportioned in such manner as the parties think fit, so that a distinct consideration for each separate part or parcel is set forth in the conveyance relating thereto, 

 Stamp 35 and such conveyance shall be chargeable with ad valorem duty in respect of such distinct consideration. (2) Where property contracted to be purchased for one consideration for the whole by two or more persons jointly, or by any person for himself and others, or wholly for others, is conveyed in parts or parcels by separate instruments to the person by or for whom the same was purchased for distinct parts of the consideration, the conveyance for each separate part or parcel shall be chargeable with ad valorem duty in respect of the distinct part of the consideration therein specified. (3) Where a person having contracted for the purchase of any property but not having obtained a conveyance thereof, contracts to sell the same to any other person and the property is in consequence conveyed immediately to the sub -purchaser, the conveyance shall be chargeable with ad valorem duty in respect of the consideration moving from the sub-purchaser. (4) Where a person, having contracted for the purchase of any property but not having obtained a conveyance thereof, contracts to sell the whole, or any part thereof, to any other person or persons and the property is in consequence conveyed by the original seller to different persons in parts or parcels, the conveyance of each part or parcel sold to a sub-purchaser shall be chargeable with ad valorem duty in respect only of the consideration moving from the sub -purchaser thereof, without regard to the amoun t or value of the original consideration; and the conveyance of the residue, if any, of such property to the original purchaser shall be chargeable with ad valorem duty in the manner specified by section 12 A and Item 32 (a) of the First Schedule. (5) Where a sub -purchaser takes an actual conveyance of the interest of the person immediately selling to him, which is chargeable with ad valorem duty in respect of the consideration moving from him and is duly stamped accordingly, any conveyance to be afterwards made to him of the same property by the original seller shall be chargeable with a duty equal to that which would be chargeable on a conveyance for the consideration obtained by such original seller, or where such duty would exceed ten ringgit with a duty of ten ringgit. 

36 Laws of Malaysia ACT 378 Exchange of real property 20A. Where upon the exchange of any real property for any other real property, or upon the partition or division of any real property, any consideration is paid or given, or agreed to be paid or given, for equality: (a) the principal or only instrument whereby the exchange or partition or division is affected is to be charged with the same ad valorem duty as a conveyance on sale for the consideration, and with that duty only; and (b) where in any such case there are se veral instruments for completing the title of either party, the principal instrument is to be ascertained and the other instruments are to be charged, with duty in the manner hereinbefore provided in the case of several instruments of conveyance. Vesting or transfer of an undivided interest in property 20B. (1) Every conveyance either on sale or by way of gift or settlement which operates to vest or transfer an undivided interest in real property, shall contain an affidavit of the transferee certifying that the transaction effected by the instrument does not form part of a larger transaction or series of transactions completed or to be completed within a period of twelve months after the date of the first of the instruments employed to complete the conveyance of the property. (2) Where the transaction effected by the instrument forms part of a larger transaction or series of transactions, ad valorem duty upon that instrument and upon any other instrument following shall be calculated on the aggregate of the consideration or market values of the separate parts or parcels being conveyed, whichever is the higher, at the rates specified under Item 32(a) of the First Schedule. Certain contracts to be chargeable as conveyances on sale 21. (1) Any contract or agreement made in Malaysia under seal or under hand only, for the sale of any equitable estate or interest in any 

 Stamp 37 property whatsoever, or for the sale of any estate or interest in any property except lands, tenements, hereditaments, or heritages, or property locally situate out of Malaysia, or goods, wares or merchandise, or stock, or marketable securities, or any ship or vessel, or part interest, share or property of or in any ship or vessel, shall be charged with the same ad valorem duty, to be paid by th e purchaser, as if it were an actual conveyance on sale of the estate, interest or property contracted or agreed to be sold. (2) Where the purchaser has paid the said ad valorem duty and, before having obtained conveyance or transfer of the property, ente rs into a contract or agreement for the sale of the same, the contract or agreement shall be charged, if the consideration for that sale is in excess of the consideration for the original sale, with the ad valorem duty payable in respect of such excess consideration, and in any other case with the fixed duty of ten ringgit. (3) Where duty has been duly paid in conformity with the foregoing provisions, the conveyance or transfer made to the purchaser or sub-purchaser, or any other person on his behalf or b y his direction, shall not be chargeable with any duty, and the Collector, upon application, either shall denote the payment of the ad valorem duty upon the conveyance or transfer or shall transfer the ad valorem duty thereto upon production of the contrac t or agreement, or contracts or agreements, duly stamped. (4)–(6) (Deleted by Act A723). (7) The ad valorem duty paid upon any such contract or agreement shall be returned by the Collector in case the contract or agreement be afterwards rescinded or annu lled, or for any other reason be not substantially performed or carried into effect, so as to operate as or be followed by a conveyance or transfer. Sale of annuity or right not before in existence 22. Where upon the sale of any annuity or other right not before in existence such annuity or other right is not created by actual grant or conveyance, but is only secured by bond, warrant of attorney, covenant, contract or otherwise, the bond or other instrument, or some one of such 

38 Laws of Malaysia ACT 378 instruments, if there be more than one, shall be charged with the same duty as an actual grant or conveyance, and shall for the purposes of this Act be deemed an instrument of conveyance on sale. What is to be deemed a conveyance, not being a sale or mortgage 23. Every instrument and every decree or order of any court, whereby any property on any occasion, except a sale or mortgage, is transferred to or vested in any person, shall be charged as a conveyance or transfer of property. Leases, how to be charged in respect of produce, etc. 24. (1) Where the consideration or any part of the consideration for which a lease is granted or agreed to be granted consists of any produce or other goods, the value of the produce or goods shall be deemed a consideration in respect of which the lease or agreement is chargeable with ad valorem duty. (2) Where it is stipulated that the value of the produce or goods is to amount at least to, or is not to exceed, a given sum, or where the lessee is specially charged with, or has the option of paying after any permanent rate of conversion, the value of the produce or goods shall, for the purpose of assessing the ad valorem duty, be estimated at the given sum, or according to such permanent rate. (3) A lease or agreement for a lease made either wholly or partially for any such consideration, if it contains a statement of the value thereof and is stamped in accordance with the statement, shall, so far as regards the subject matter of the statement, be deemed duly stamped, unless or until it is otherwise shown that the statement is incorrect, and that the lease or agreement is in fact not duly stamped. Directions as to duty upon leases, etc. 25. (1) A lease or agreement for a lease or with respect to any letting shall not be charged with any duty in resp ect of any penal rent, or increased rent in the nature of a penal rent, thereby reserved or agreed 

 Stamp 39 to be reserved or made payable or by reason of being made in consideration of the surrender or abandonment of any existing lease, or agreement of or relating to the same subject matter. (2) A lease made for any consideration in respect whereof it is chargeable with ad valorem duty, and in further consideration either of a covenant by the lessee to make, or of his having previously made, any substantial improv ement of or addition to the property demised to him, or of any covenant relating to the matter of the lease, shall not be charged with any duty in respect of such further consideration, except where such further consideration consists of a covenant which if it were contained in a separate deed would be chargeable with ad valorem duty. (3) An instrument whereby the rent reserved by any other instrument chargeable with duty and duly stamped as a lease is increased shall not be charged with duty otherwise tha n as a lease in consideration of the additional rent thereby made payable. Direction as to duty upon transfer of stock 26. (1) A security for the transfer or re-transfer of any stock shall be charged with the same duty as a similar security for a sum of money equal in amount to the value of the stock; and a transfer, assignment or disposition or assignation of any such security and a reconveyance, release, discharge, surrender, re -surrender, warrant to vacate or renunciation of any such security shall be charged with the same duty as an instrument of the same description relating to a sum of money equal in amount to the value of the stock. (2) A security for the payment of any rent charge, annuity or periodical payments by way of repayment, or in satisfa ction or discharge of any loan, advance or payment intended to be so repaid, satisfied or discharged, shall be charged with the same duty as a similar security for the payment of the sum of money so lent, advanced or paid. (3) A transfer of a duly stamped security, and a security by way of further charge for money or stock, added to money or stock previously secured by a duly stamped instrument, shall not be charged with any duty by reason of its containing any further or additional security for 

40 Laws of Malaysia ACT 378 the money or stock transferred or previously secured, or the interest or dividends thereof, or any new covenant, proviso, power, stipulation or agreement in relation thereto, or any further assurance of the property comprised in the transferred or previous security. (4) An instrument chargeable with ad valorem duty as a mortgage shall not be charged with any further duty by reason of the equity of redemption in the mortgaged property being thereby conveyed or limited in any other manner than to a purchaser, or in tru st for, or according to the direction of, a purchaser. 27. (Deleted by Act A723). Security for future advances, how to be charged 28. (1) A security for the payment or repayment of money to be lent, advanced or paid, or which may become due upon an a ccount current, either with or without money previously due, shall be charged, where the total amount secured or to be ultimately recoverable is in any way limited, with the same duty as a security for the amount so limited. (2) Where such total amount is unlimited, the security is to be available for such an amount only as the ad valorem duty stamped thereon extends to cover; but where any advance or loan is made in excess of the amount covered by that duty the security shall for the purpose of stamp duty be deemed to be a new and separate instrument bearing date on the day on which the advance or loan is made. (3) No money to be advanced for the insurance of any property comprised in the security against damage by fire, or for keeping up any policy of life insurance comprised in the security, or for effecting in lieu thereof any new policy, shall be reckoned as forming part of the amount in respect whereof the security is chargeable with ad valorem duty. 29. (Deleted by Act A723). 

 Stamp 41 Directions as to duty upon a primary or principal security 29A. In determining whether an instrument is the only, principal or primary security for any annuity, or for any sum or sums of money or for the payment or repayment of money within the meaning of Item 22(1) or Item 27(a) in the First Schedule, no account shall be taken of any other instrument which is a security for the same annuity, sum or sums of money or for the same payment or repayment, as the case may be, or for any part thereof, unless that other instrument is chargeable with stamp duty under either of the said paragraphs and is duly stamped. Directions as to sea policy 30. (1) No contract for sea insurance, other than such insurance as is referred to in section 363 of the Merchant Shipping Ordinance 1952 [Ord. No 70 of 1952 ] or any corresponding provision in any other written law for the time being in force in Sabah or Sarawak shall be valid unless the same is expressed in a policy of sea insurance. (2) No policy of sea insurance made for time shall be made for any time exceeding twelve months. (3) No policy of sea insurance shall be valid unless it specifies the particular risk or adventure or the time for which it is made, the names of the subscribers or underwriters, and the amount or amounts insured. (4) Where any sea insurance is made for or upon a voyage and also for time, or to extend to or cover any time beyond thirty days after the ship shall have arrived at her destination and been there moored at anchor, the policy shall be charged with duty as a policy for or upon a voyage and also with duty as a policy for time. (5) Notwithstanding anything contained in this section , a policy of sea insurance made for time may contain a continuation clause, and such a policy shall not be invalid on the ground only that by reason of the continuation clause it may become available for a period exceeding twelve months. 

42 Laws of Malaysia ACT 378 (6) There shall be charged on a policy of sea insurance containing a continuation clause the stamp duty mentioned in the First Schedule in addition to the stamp duty which is otherwise chargeable on the policy. (7) If the risk covered by the continuation clause attaches and a new policy is not issued covering the risk, the continuation clause shall be deemed to be a new and separate contract of sea insurance expressed in the policy in which it is contained, but not covered by the stamp thereon, and the policy shall be stamped in respect of that contract accordingly, but may be so stamped without penalty at any time not exceeding thirty days after the risk has so attached. (8) Where any person, in consideration of any sum of money paid or to be paid for additional freight or otherwise, agrees to take upon himself any risk attending goods, merchandise or property of any description whatever while on board of any ship or vessel, or engages to indemnify the owner of any such goods, merchandise or property from any risk, loss or damage such agreement or engagement shall be deemed to be a contract for sea insurance. Legal alteration in sea policies may be made 31. Nothing in this Act shall prohibit the making of any alteration which may lawfully be made in the terms and conditions of any policy of sea insurance after the policy has been underwritten: Provided that— (a) the alteration is made before notice of the determination of the risk originally insured; (b) it does not prolong the time covered by the insurance thereby made beyond the period of six months in the case of a policy made for a less period than six months, or beyond the period of twelve months in the case of a policy made for a greater period than six months; (c) the articles insured remain the property of the same person or persons; and 

 Stamp 43 (d) no additional or further sum is insured by reason or means of the alteration. Directions as to certain contract notes 32. (1) Where a contract note is a continuation or carrying over note made for the purpose of continuing or carrying over any transaction for the sale or purchase of stock or marketable securities, the contract note, although it is made in respect of both a sale and purchase, shall be charged with duty under this section as if it related to one of those transactions only, and, if different rates of duty are chargeable in respect of those transactions, to that one of those transactions which would render the contract note chargeable at the highest rate. (2) Where a contract note advises the sale or purchase of more than one description of stock or marketable security, the note shall be deemed to be as many contract notes as they are descriptions of stocks or securities sold or purchased. Obligation to execute contract note 32A. (1) Any person who effects any sale or purchase of any stock or marketable security as a dealer or agent, and any person who, by way of business— (a) deals or holds himself out as dealing as a principal in any stock or marketable security; and (b) buys or sells any stock or marketable security, shall forthwith make and execute a contract note, and transmit the note to his principal, or to the vendor or purchaser of the stock or marketable security, as the case may be. (2) No dealer, agent or other person shall have any legal claim to any charge for brokerage, commission or agency with reference to the sale or purchase of any stock or marketable security if he fails to comply with this section. 

44 Laws of Malaysia ACT 378 PART IV LIABILITY FOR PAYMENT OF DUTY Duty by whom payable 33. The expense of providing the proper stamp duty be borne— (a) in the case of the instruments described in the first column of the Third Schedule, by the person mentioned in the second column of such Schedule; (b) in the case of every other instrument, by the person drawing, making or executing such instrument. 34. (Deleted by Act 476). Exemptions 35. The instruments appearing under the heading of “General Exemptions” in the First Schedule shall not be chargeable with duty. PART V ADJUDICATION AS TO STAMPS Mode of adjudication as to proper stamp 36. (1) All instruments chargeable with duty and executed by any person in Malaysia (except an instrument which by virtue of section 47 cannot be stamped after execution) shall be brought to the Collector and the Collector shall assess the duty, if any, with which in his judgment the instrument is chargeable. (2) For this purpose the Collector may require an abstract of the instrument to be furnished, and also such affidavit or other evidence as he deems necessary to prove that all the facts and 

 Stamp 45 circumstances affecting the liability of the instrument to duty, or the amount of the duty chargeable thereon, are fully and truly set forth th erein, and may refuse to proceed upon any such application until such abstract and evidence have been furnished to him accordingly. (3) No evidence furnished in pursuance of this section shall be used against any person in any civil proceeding, except in an inquiry as to the duty with which the instrument to which it relates is chargeable. (4) Every person by whom any such evidence is furnished shall, on payment of the full duty with which the instrument to which it relates is chargeable, be relieved from any penalty which he has incurred under this Act by reason of the omission to state truly in such instrument any of the facts or circumstances aforesaid. Initial duty 36A. (1) Notwithstanding section 36 but subject to section 36 B, the Collector may, on an application made by any person in respect of an instrument for the transfer of an immovable property, assess the initial duty for which the instrument is chargeable. (2) The application made under subsection (1) shall contain particulars or evidence d eemed necessary to prove the facts affecting the liability of the instrument to duty and any valuation report, prepared by a person privately practising as a valuer, on the market value of the immovable property shall for the purposes of this section be sufficient evidence for the Collector to make an assessment on the initial duty for which the instrument is chargeable. (3) For the purposes of this section, a person shall— (a) pay a fee of ten ringgit; and (b) furnish in a form of a bank guarantee payable to th e Collector, as security for payment of further duty chargeable on the instrument, if any, valid for a period of not less than six months, of which the value of the bank 

46 Laws of Malaysia ACT 378 guarantee shall be determined in accordance with the following formula: A – B where A is the duty chargeable on such instrument based on the value of immoveable property where the value is ascertained in accordance with the following formula: Y x 100 65 where Y is the market value of such property as submitted by that person; B is the amount of duty chargeable on such instrument based on the market value submitted by that person. Advance duty 36AA. (1) Notwithstanding sections 36 and 36 A, the Collector may, on an application made by any person assess the advance duty for an instrument for the transfer of an immovable property where the consideration consists wholly of money. (2) For the purposes of subsection (1), the Collector shall, prior to the market value of the immovable property being ascertained by a valuer employed by the Government for the purpose of subsection 36B(1A), ascertain the market value in advance for which the instrument referred to in that subsection is chargeable in accordance with the following formula: A x 100 83.333 

 Stamp 47 where A is the money value of the consideration in respect of an instrument for the transfer of an immovable property as submitted by the person. (3) The Collector shall assess the duty chargeable on the instrument referred to in subsection (1) based on the market value as a scertained in advance under subsection (2). Additional duty 36B. (1) Where section 36 A applies and it appears to the Collector that based on the market value of the property as ascertained by a valuer employed by the Government, the proper amount of dut y chargeable on the instrument is higher than the initial duty paid, he may within three months after the payment of the initial duty make an additional assessment on a person liable to pay such duty in the additional amount of duty chargeable. (1A) Where section 36AA applies and it appears to the Collector that based on the market value of the immovable property as ascertained by the valuer employed by the Government, the proper amount of duty chargeable on the instrument is higher than the advance duty p aid, he may make an additional assessment on the person liable to pay such duty in the additional amount of duty chargeable. (2) As soon as may be after the additional assessment has been made under subsection (1) or (1A) the Collector shall cause a notice of additional assessment to be served on the person liable to pay duty in respect of such assessment. (3) A notice of additional assessment shall be in appropriate form and shall indicate in addition to any other material included therein— (a) the proper a mount of dut y chargeable, the initial duty or advance duty paid and amount of additional duty chargeable on the instrument; (b) the place at which payment is to be made; 

48 Laws of Malaysia ACT 378 (c) the increased sum imposed under subsection (6); and (d) any right of appeal which may exist under this Act. (4) The duty chargeable under an assessment shall be due and payable on the service of the notice of additional assessment to the person liable to pay the duty. (5) Where initial duty due and payable under subsection (4) has not been p aid within thirty days after the service of the notice of additional assessment — (a) the Collector shall call upon the bank guarantee furnished to satisfy that amount of duty payable; and (b) if the bank guarantee amount is insufficient to satisfy such amount, t he remaining duty unpaid, shall without any further notice being served, be increased by an amount of ten per cent of such duty so unpaid. (6) Where the proper amount of duty chargeable under subsection (1) exceeds the total sum of initial duty paid and bank guarantee furnished, by an amount of more than thirty per cent of that proper amount of duty chargeable, the difference between that amount and thirty per cent of the proper duty chargeable shall be increased by a sum equal to ten per cent of the amount of that difference. (6A) Where advance duty due and payable under subsection (4) has not been paid within thirty days after the service of the notice of additional assessment, so much of the duty remaining unpaid upon the expiration of that date shall without any further notice being served, be increased by a sum equal to ten per cent of the duty so unpaid. (7) The amount of duty unpaid and the increased amount under paragraph (5)( b), and increased sum under subsection (6) or (6 A) shall be recoverable as a debt due to the Government. 

 Stamp 49 Where duty chargeable is equal or lower than advance duty paid and refund of advance duty paid in excess 36C. (1) Notwithstanding section 36B(1A), where section 36 AA applies and it appears to the Collector that based o n the market value of the immovable property as ascertained by the valuer employed by the Government, the proper amount of duty chargeable on the instrument is equal to or lower than the advance duty paid, he may notify the person in writing of the valuati on on the proper amount of duty and such notification shall be deemed to be an assessment for the purposes of this Act. (2) Where it is proved to the satisfaction of the Collector that the person has paid the advance duty chargeable under section 36 AA in excess of the proper amount of duty referred to in subsection (1), the excess shall be refunded by the Collector. Finality of assessment 36D. (1) For the purpose s of this Act, an assessment shall be final and conclusive where — (a) no valid notice of appe al against the assessment has been given under section 39 within the time specified by that section; (b) the assessment has been determined on appeal and there is no right of further appeal; or (c) a valid notice of appeal against the assessment has been given but the appellant dies before the hearing of the appeal by the High Court is commenced or completed and no personal representative of the estate of the deceased appellant applies to the High Court within two years after his death to proceed with or complete the hearing. (2) Nothing in subsection (1) shall prejudice the application of section 36B or 50A. 

50 Laws of Malaysia ACT 378 Certificate by Collector 37. (1) When an instrument brought to the Collector under section 36, 36 A, 36AA or 36B and— (a) the Collector determined that it is already fully stamped; or (b) the duty assessed by the Collector under such sections, as the case may be, or such a sum as, with the duty already paid in respect of the instrument, is equal to the d uty so assessed, has been paid, (c) (Deleted by Act A1380). the Collector shall certify by indorsement on such instrument that the full duty, initial duty, advance duty or additional duty, as the case may be stating the amount, with which it is chargeable, has been paid. (2) When such instrument is not chargeable with duty the Collector shall certify in manner aforesaid that such instrument is not so chargeable. (2A) Where an instrument is chargeable with duty which exceeds ten ringgit and the duty is exempted, the person bringing the instrument to the Collector shall pay a fee of ten ringgit for the Collector to certify by indorsement on such instrument that the duty is exempted. (3) Any instrument upon which an indorsement has been made under this section shall be deemed to be duly stamped or not chargeable with duty, as the case may be; and, if chargeable with duty, shall be receivable in evidence or otherwise and may be acted upon and registered as if it had been originally duly stamped. (4) Nothing in this section shall be deemed to require the Collector to certify that the full duty with which an instrument is chargeable has been paid — (a) unless any penalty chargeable in respect of the instrument under this Act has been paid; or (b) if the instrument cannot by law be stamped. 

 Stamp 51 (5) This section shall only apply to instrument where indorsement is required to be made on that instrument pursuant to any written law. Exception to sections 36, 36A, 36AA, 36B, 36C and 37 38. Nothing in sections 36, 36A, 36AA, 36B, 36C and 37 shall extend to any instrument chargeable with ad valorem duty and made as a security for money or stock without limit. Notice of objection 38A. (1) Any person who is dissatisfied with an assessment or additional assessment of the Collector under this Part may, by written notice (referred to in this Act as “notice of objection”), object to the assessment or additional assessment and apply to the Collector to review the assessment or additional assessment. (2) Every notice of objection shall state the grounds of objection to the Collector’s assessment or additional assessment and shall be made within thirty days after the date of the assessment or additional assessment or such further period as the Collector may allow in any particular case. (3) The person giving a notice of objection sha ll furnish further particulars and information in relation to the grounds of the objection if required to do so by the Collector in writing. (4) The Collector shall, on receipt of a notice of objection and such further particulars and information as he ma y require under subsection (3), review the assessment or additional assessment. (5) After the objection has been determined, the Collector shall notify the person in writing of his decision. (6) Where, on review, it appears to the Collector that the amount of duty originally or additionally assessed is excessive, he may cancel the original or additional assessment and make such other assessment in substitution of the original or additional assessment and shall serve on the person a notice of substituted assessment. 

52 Laws of Malaysia ACT 378 (7) The making of an objection shall not relieve the person of liability to pay the duty as required by this Act. (8) Any reference in this Act to an assessment or additional assessment shall be construed as including a reference to a substituted assessment under subsection (6). Appeal to High Court 39. (1) Any person who is dissatisfied with the decision of the Collector under subsection 38 A(5) may, within twenty -one days after the person is notified in writing of that decision and upon pa yment of duty in conformity therewith, appeal against the decision to the High Court in accordance with the procedure and practice for the time being in force in the High Court and may for that purpose require the Collector to state and sign a case, setting forth the question upon which his opinion was required, and the decision made by him. (1A) Where an appeal has been filed under subsection (1), the cause papers of the appeal shall be served on the Collector within the time stipulated for the filing of the appeal. (2) The Collector shall thereupon state and sign a case and deliver the same to the person by whom it is required, and the case may, within seven days thereafter or within such further time as the Court may allow, be set down by him for hearing. (3) Upon the hearing of the case the Court shall determine the question submitted, and, if the instrument in question is in the opinion of the Court chargeable with any duty, shall assess the duty with which it is chargeable. (4) Subject to subsection (4A), if it is decided by the Court that the assessment or additional assessment of the Collector is erroneous, any excess of duty which may have been paid in conformity with the erroneous assessment, together with any fine or penalty which may have been paid in consequence thereof, shall be ordered by the Court to be repaid to the appellant, with or without costs as the Court may determine. 

 Stamp 53 (4A) Nothing in this section shall operate to compel the Collector to refund the excess amount of duty which may ha ve been paid in conformity with the erroneous assessment, together with any fine or penalty which may have been paid unless the assessment has become final and conclusive in accordance with section 36D. (5) If the assessment or additional assessment of th e Collector is confirmed the Court may make an order for payment to the Collector of the costs incurred by him in relation to the appeal. (6) Unless it is otherwise provided by rules of court, the rules of court for the time being in force in relation to appeals in civil matters from the High Court in its original jurisdiction to the Court of Appeal and the Federal Court shall apply with the necessary modifications to appeals under this section to the High Court, the Court of Appeal and the Federal Court respectively. Time of stamping after adjudication 40. Where an instrument is brought to the Collector pursuant to subsection 36(1), the instrument shall be stamped in accordance with the assessment of the Collector within fourteen days after notice of the assessment, and in the case of an application to the High Court under section 39 within fourteen days after the issue of the order of the Court, or within such further period, in either case, as the Collector when giving notice of assessment or the Cou rt when making the order, may specify: Provided that the said period of fourteen days or any further period specified by the Collector or the Court may, on application made before the period or further period expires, be extended or further extended by the Collector or the Court, as the case may be. 

54 Laws of Malaysia ACT 378 PART VI OF THE TIME OF STAMPING INSTRUMENTS Instruments executed in Malaysia 41. Save where express provision to the contrary is contained in this Act, all instruments chargeable with duty and executed by any person in Malaysia shall be stamped before or at the time of execution. Instruments executed out of Malaysia 42. (1) Every instrument chargeable with duty executed only out of Malaysia, and not being a cheque or promissory note, may be stamped within thirty days after it has first been received in Malaysia. (2) When any such instrument is brought to him for stamping the Collector may require that the date of receipt thereof be verified by production of the envelope in which the same was received or of any accompanying letter, or, unless the date of the instrument shows that it must have been received within thirty days, by statutory declaration. (2A) For the purposes of subsection (2), where the instrument is received by way of electronic transmission, the date of receipt thereof shall be verified by the production of a copy or print -out of the electronic transmission. Bills, cheques or notes drawn out of Malaysia 43. Every person into whose hands any cheque or promissory note drawn or made ou t of Malaysia comes in Malaysia before it is stamped shall, before he presents the same for acceptance or payment, or endorses, transfers or otherwise negotiates the same in Malaysia, bring the cheque or promissory note to the Collector for assessment of d uty in accordance with section 36 within thirty days after it has been first received in Malaysia. 

 Stamp 55 Bills of exchange and cheques accepted or payable outside Malaysia 44. Notwithstanding anything in this Act contained, a cheque which is presented for acc eptance, or accepted, or payable outside Malaysia shall not be invalid by reason only that it is not stamped in accordance with this Act, and any such cheque which is unstamped or insufficiently stamped may be received in evidence on payment of the proper duty and the penalty, if any, payable under section 47 A, and such cheque shall, for the purposes of this section, be deemed to be an instrument which may be stamped after the first execution thereof under such section. Power of drawee to stamp bills or cheques 45. (1) Where any cheque, is presented for payment unstamped, the person to whom it is so presented may bring the cheque to the Collector for assessment of duty in accordance with section 36, and may pay the sum payable upon such cheque and may cha rge the duty against the person who ought to have paid the same or deduct it from the sum payable as aforesaid, and such cheque shall, so far as respects the duty, be deemed good and valid. (2) Nothing herein shall relieve any person from any penalty or proceeding to which he may be liable in relation to such cheque. Transfers of shares 46. Transfers of shares which are numbered shall not be stamped until the numbers of the shares are entered. Stamping of instrument after execution 47. Save where other express provision is made by this or any other Act, any unstamped or insufficiently stamped instrument not being a cheque or promissory note drawn or made within Malaysia may be stamped after execution on payment of the unpaid duty if the instrument is presented for stamping within thirty days of its execution if executed within Malaysia, or within thirty days after it has been first received in Malaysia if it has been executed out of Malaysia. 

56 Laws of Malaysia ACT 378 Penalty for late stamping 47A. (1) An instrument which is not stamped within the period specified in or under section 40 or 47 may be stamped on payment of the unpaid duty and a penalty of— (a) twenty-five ringgit or five per centum of the amount of the deficient duty, whichever sum be the greater, if the instrument is stamped within 3 months after the time for stamping; (b) fifty ringgit or ten per centum of the amount of the deficient duty, whichever sum be the greater, if the instrument is stamped later than 3 months but not later than 6 months after the time for stamping; or (c) one hundred ringgit or twenty per centum of the amount of the deficient duty, whichever sum be the greater, in any other case. (2) The Collector may, if he thinks fit, reduce or remit such penalty or the further amount payable under subsection 9(3). Denoting penalty 48. The payment of any penalty prescribed under section 47A shall be denoted on the instrument concerned— (a) (Deleted by Act 851); (b) (Deleted by Act 851); (c) by affixing an official receipt to the instrument; (d) by attaching a stamp certificate to the instrument; or (e) by means of digital stamping, and shall be certified by the Collector. 

 Stamp 57 Persons liable to penalty 49. The person liable to any penalty under section 43 or 47 A shall be the person by whom the duty is payable in accordance with Part IV. Penalty, how recoverable 50. (1) All duties, penalties and other sums required to be paid under this Act shall be debts due to the Government and shall be recoverable by any of the ways and means in force for the time being for the recovery of debts due to the Government. (2) The Collector and any employee of the Inland Revenue Board of Malaysia authorized by the Collector shall be deemed to be public officers authorized by the Minister under subsection 25(1) of the Government Proceedings Act 1956 [ Act 359] in respect of all proceedings under this section. (3) In a suit under this section, the production of a certificate signed by the Collector giving the name and address of the defendant and the amount of the duty or penalty due from him shall be sufficient evidence of the amount so due and authority for the court to give judgment for that amount. Error in assessment, etc. 50A. No assessment shall be affected by— (a) any erroneous or under assessment of the duty or penalty by the Collector; or (b) the failure to assess that duty or penalty by the Collector, and the correct amount of duty or penalty due on the instrument shall be debts due to the Government and shall be recoverable by any of the ways and means in force for the time being for the recovery of debts due to the Government. 

58 Laws of Malaysia ACT 378 PART VII INSTRUMENTS NOT DULY STAMPED Examination and impounding of instruments 51. (1) Every person having by law or consent of parties authority to receive evidence, and every person in charge of a public office, except an officer of police, before whom any instrument, chargeable, in his opinion, with duty, is produced or comes in the performance of his functions, shall, if it appears to him that such instrument is not duly stamped, impound the same. (2) For that purpose every such person shall examine every instrument so chargeable and so produced or coming before him in order to ascertain whether it is stamped with a stamp of the value and description required by the law in force in Malaysia when such instrument was executed or first executed: Provided that— (a) nothing herein contained shall be deemed to require any Magistrate or Judge to examine or impound, if he does not think fit to do so, any instrument coming before him in the course of any criminal proceeding; (b) in the case of a Judge of the High Court, the duty of examining and impounding any instrument under this section shall be performed by the Registrar. Instruments not duly stamped inadmissible in evidence 52. (1) No instrument chargeable with duty shall be admitted in evidence for any purpose by any person having by law or consent of parties authority to receive evidence, or shall be acted upon, registered, or authenticated by any such person or by any public officer, unless such instrument is duly stamped: Provided that— (a) any such instrument shall, subject to all just exceptions, be admitted in evidence on payment of the duty and the 

 Stamp 59 penalty, if any, chargeable in respect thereof under section 43 or 47A; (b) nothing herein contained shall prevent the admission of any instrument in evidence in any criminal court; (c) nothing herein contained shall prevent the admission of any instrument in evidence in any court when such instrument has been executed by or on behalf of the Government of Malaysia or of any State or of the Government of any other country or where it bears the certificate of the Collector as provided by this Act. (2) No instrument executed outside Malaysia and relating to any property situate, or to any matter or thing done or to be done , in any part of Malaysia shall, except in the circumstances mentioned in subsection (1), be given in evidence or referred to or used in any manner in any proceedings in any Court or before any tribunal, board, commission, committee or similar body by what ever name called, established under any written law, unless it is duly stamped in accordance with the law in force in that part of Malaysia at the time when it was first executed relating to stamp duty which would have been chargeable on any such instrument if it had been executed in that part of Malaysia. (3) In subsection 2, “part of Malaysia” includes any territory which is part of Malaysia at the time of the proceedings, notwithstanding that it was not part of Malaysia when the instrument was executed. Instruments impounded how dealt with 53. (1) When the person impounding an instrument under section 51 has by law or consent of parties authority to receive evidence and admits such instrument in evidence on payment of duty and penalty, if any, he shal l, as soon as may be convenient, send such instrument, together with the amount of the duty and penalty, if any, paid in respect thereof, to the Collector; and the Collector shall stamp such instrument in accordance with section 43 or 47 A and shall return it to the person who sent it to him. 

60 Laws of Malaysia ACT 378 (2) In every other case in which an instrument is impounded under section 51, the person impounding the same shall send it forthwith to the Collector; and the Collector, on payment of the duty and penalty, if any, char geable in respect thereof under section 43 or 47 A, shall stamp such instrument and shall return it to the person who sent it to him, but if such duty and penalty, if any, be not paid, he shall retain such instrument. (3) Any penalty levied under this sect ion may be reduced or remitted in the manner provided for by subsection 47A(2). 54. (Deleted by Act 476). Agreements evidenced by letters how stamped 55. (1) Where a contract or agreement of any kind is effected by correspondence consisting of two or more letters and any one of the letters bears the proper stamp the contract or agreement shall be deemed to be duly stamped. (2) Where an agreement is evidenced by one or more letters between parties, which letters were not stamped before being used, it shall be lawful for the Collector, on being satisfied that the omission to have the letter or letters stamped did not arise from an intention to evade the payment of stamp duty, to affix the proper stamp on the letter or any one of the letters evidencing the contract on payment of the duty. (3) (Deleted by Act 831) (4) Where a letter is so stamped all the letters forming together the agreement may be used in evidence to prove the agreement stated or partly stated in the letter so stamped. Recovery of duty and penalty 56. When any duty or penalty has been paid in respect of any instrument by any person, any by agreement or under this Act or of any other written law in force at the time when such instrument was executed or first executed some other person was liable to pay the duty 

 Stamp 61 on such instrument, the first mentioned person shall be entitled to recover from such other person the amount of the duty or penalty so paid, and for the purpose of such recovery any certificate granted in respect of such instru ment by the Collector shall be conclusive evidence as to the amount of the duty and penalty paid and the person by whom they were paid. PART VIII ALLOWANCE FOR SPOILED STAMPS Allowance for spoiled stamps 57. Subject to any rules which may be made under this Act and to the production of such evidence by statutory declaration or otherwise as the Collector may require, allowance shall be made by the Collector for stamps spoiled in the following cases: (a) the stamp on any paper inadvertently and undesignedl y spoiled, obliterated or by any means rendered unfit for the purpose intended, before the paper bears the signature of any person or any instrument written thereon is executed by any party; (b) (Deleted by Act 851); (c) (Deleted by Act 661); (d) the stamp on any promissory note signed by or on behalf of the maker which has not been made use of in any manner whatever or delivered out of his hands; (e) the stamp on any promissory note which from any omission or error has been spoiled or rendered useless, although the same, being a promissory note, may have been delivered to the payee, provided that another completed and duly stamped promissory note, is produced identical in every particular except in correction of the error or omission, with the spoiled note; 

62 Laws of Malaysia ACT 378 (f) the stamp used for any of the following instruments: (i) an instrument executed by any party thereto, but afterwards found to be absolutely void from the beginning; (ii) an instrument executed by any party thereto, but afterwards found unfit, by reason of any error or mistake therein, for the purpose originally intended; (iii) an instrument executed by any party thereto, which has not been made use of for any purpose whatever, and which by reason of the inability or refusal of some necessary party to sign the same or to comple te the transaction according to the instrument is incomplete and insufficient for the purpose for which it was intended; (iv) an instrument executed by any party thereto, which by reason of the inability or refusal of any person to act under the same, or for w ant of registration within the time required by law, fails of the intended purpose or becomes void; (v) an instrument executed by any party thereto, which is inadvertently and undesignedly spoiled, and in lieu whereof another instrument made between the same parties and for the same purpose is executed and duly stamped, or which becomes useless in consequence of the transaction intended to be thereby effected being effected by some other instrument duly stamped; (vi) in the case of an instrument executed by any pa rty implementing a sale under a duly stamped agreement for sale and purchase but afterwards became cancelled, annulled, rescinded or is otherwise not performed: Provided as follows: (a) that the application for relief is made within twenty-four months after the stamp has been spoiled or become useless or in the case of an executed instrument after the date of the instrument, or, if it is not dated, within twenty -four months after the execution thereof by the 

 Stamp 63 person whom it was first or alone executed or wit hin such further time as the Collector may prescribe in the case of any instrument sent abroad for execution or when from unavoidable circumstances any instrument for which another has been substituted cannot be produced within the said period; (aa) that the application for relief is made within two months from the date the instrument of transfer is rejected by the Registrar of Titles; or (b) that in the case of an executed instrument no legal proceeding has been commenced in which the instrument could or would have been given or offered in evidence, and that the instrument is given up to be cancelled. Allowance for misused stamps 58. When any person has inadvertently used for an instrument liable to duty a stamp of greater value than was necessary, or ha s inadvertently used a stamp for an instrument not liable to any duty, the Collector may, on application made within twenty-four months after the date of the instrument, or, if it is not dated, within twenty-four months after the execution thereof by the person by whom it was first or alone executed, and upon the instrument, if liable to duty, being stamped with the proper duty cancel and allow as spoiled the stamp so misused. Allowance, how to be made 59. In any case in which allowance is made for spoiled, unused or misused stamps, the Collector shall give in lieu thereof the same value in money. Stamp to include official receipt 59A. For the purposes of paragraph 57(f), sections 58 and 59, “stamp” includes an official receipt or a stamp certificate. 

64 Laws of Malaysia ACT 378 PART IX OFFENCES AND PENALTIES 60. (Deleted by Act 851). 60A. (Deleted by Act 851). Penalty for not setting forth all the facts and circumstances 61. Any person who with intent to evade the payment of duty— (a) executes any instrument in which al l the facts and circumstances are not truly and fully set forth as required by section 5; or (b) being employed or concerned in or about the preparation of any instrument neglects or omits fully and truly to set forth therein all the said facts and circumstances; shall be liable to a fine not exceeding two thousand five hundred ringgit. 62. (Deleted by Act 476). Penalty for executing and signing documents not duly stamped 63. (1) Any person who— (a) with intent to evade the payment of duty, draws, makes, executes or signs, otherwise than as a witness, any instrument whatsoever chargeable with duty without the same being duly stamped; (b) having drawn, made, executed or signed, otherwise than as a witness, any instrument whatsoever chargeable with duty without the same being duly stamped, fails, without lawful excuse, to procure the due stamping thereof within 

 Stamp 65 the time within which such instrument may be stamped without penalty under this Act; or (c) issues, endorses, transfers or presents for acceptance or payment or accepts, pays or receives payment of or in any manner negotiates any cheque or promissory note without the same being duly stamped; shall be liable to a fine not exceeding one thousand five hundred ringgit. (2) When any penalty has been paid in respe ct of any instrument under section 43, 47 A, 52 or 53, the amount of such penalty shall be allowed in reduction of the fine, if any, subsequently imposed under this section in respect of the same instrument upon the person who paid such penalty. (3) Subsection (1) shall not apply in respect of any instrument which has been indorsed as “stamped in due time” under section 40. (4) Paragraph (1)(b) shall not apply to the person mentioned in the second column hereunder in respect of the execution or signature o f such of the instruments appearing in the First Schedule as are specified in the corresponding line of the first column— Title of instrument as described in Schedule A Persons not liable to penalty Conveyance, assignment, transfer or absolute bill of sale Vendor, assignor or transferor Lease or agreement for lease The lessor Charge, agreement for a charge, bond, debenture, covenant and bill of sale by way of security The chargee or obligee in the case of a transfer or reconveyance the transfe ror, assignor or disposer or the person giving up the security (5) For the purposes of this section, a cheque issued in pursuance of section 9 shall be deemed to be duly stamped. 

66 Laws of Malaysia ACT 378 Penalty for failure to execute and transmit contract note 64. Any person who, being required under section 32 A to make and execute a contract note and transmit the note as so required, refuses or neglects to make and execute the contract note or to so transmit the note shall be liable to a fine not exceeding one thousand five hundred ringgit. Penalty for post-dating bills 65. Any person who with intent to evade the payment of duty— (a) draws, makes or issues any promissory note bearing a date subsequent to that on which such note is actually drawn or made; or (b) knowing that suc h note has been so postdated, endorses, transfers, presents for acceptance or payment or accepts, pays or receives payment of such note or in any manner negotiates the same, shall be liable to a fine not exceeding two thousand five hundred ringgit. 66. (Deleted by Act A723). Penalty for not making out policy other than on sea insurance or making one not duly stamped 67. Any person who— (a) receives, or takes credit for any premium or consideration for any insurance other than a sea insurance, and does n ot within one month after receiving or taking credit for the premium or consideration make out and execute a duly stamped policy of insurance; or (b) makes, executes, or delivers out, or pays or allows in account, or agrees to pay or allow in account, any mon ey upon or in respect of any policy other than a policy of sea insurance which is not duly stamped, shall be liable to a fine not exceeding one thousand ringgit. 

 Stamp 67 Provided that on application and for good cause shown by any person the Minister of Finance may extend the period mentioned in paragraph (a) of this section to a period not exceeding three months in favour of such person. Penalty for assuring on sea insurance unless under policy duly stamped 68. (1) Any person who— (a) becomes an assurer upon any sea insurance or enters into any contract for sea insurance, or directly or indirectly receives or contracts or takes credit in account for any premium or consideration for any sea insurance, or knowingly takes upon himself any risk, or renders himself liable to pay, or pays any sum of money upon any loss, peril or contingency relative to any sea insurance, unless the insurance is expressed in a policy of sea insurance duly stamped; (b) makes or effects or knowingly procures to be made or effected any sea insurance, or directly or indirectly gives or pays, or renders himself liable to pay, any premium or consideration for any sea insurance, or enters into any contract for sea insurance unless the insurance is expressed in a policy of sea insurance duly stamped; or (c) is concerned in any fraudulent contrivance or device, or is guilty of any wilful act, neglect or omission with intent to evade the duties payable on policies of sea insurance or whereby the duties may be evaded, shall for every such offence be lia ble to a fine not exceeding one thousand ringgit. Broker or agent (2) Every broker, agent or other person negotiating or transacting any sea insurance contrary to the true intent and meaning of this Act, or executing any policy of sea insurance upon paper not duly stamped, 

68 Laws of Malaysia ACT 378 shall for every such offence be liable to a fine not exceeding one thousand ringgit and shall not have any legal claim to any charge for brokerage, commission or agency or for any money expended or paid by him with reference to the insurance, and any money paid to him in respect of any such charge shall be deemed to be paid without consideration, and shall remain the property of his employer. Penalty for making or issuing pretended copies (3) If any person makes or issues, or causes to be made or issued, any document purporting to be a copy of a policy of sea insurance and there is not at the time of the making or issue in existence a policy duly stamped whereof the said document is a copy, he shall for such offence, in addition to any other fine or penalty to which he is liable, be liable to a fine not exceeding one thousand ringgit. Penalty for issuing share warrant, etc., not duly stamped 69. (1) If a share warrant or stock certificate to bearer is issued without being duly stamped , the company issuing the same, and also every person who, at the time when it is issued, is the managing director or secretary or other principal officer of the company, shall be liable to a fine not exceeding one thousand five hundred ringgit. (2) If any person whose office it is to enrol, register, or enter in or upon any rolls, books or records any instrument chargeable with duty, enrols, registers or enters any such instrument not being duly stamped, he shall be liable to a fine not exceeding one thousand five hundred ringgit. 70. (Deleted by Act A723). 71. (Deleted by Act 851). 72. (Deleted by Act 851). 

 Stamp 69 Penalty relating to stamp certificates 72A. Any person who— (a) sells or offers for sale a stamp certificate; (b) fraudulently attaches a stam p certificate to an instrument other than the instrument for which the stamp certificate was issued; (c) fraudulently detaches a stamp certificate or fraudulently causes a stamp certificate to be detached from the instrument; (d) counterfeits, or knowingly performs any part of the process of counterfeiting, any stamp certificate issued by the Collector; (e) sells or offers for sale any certificate which he knows or ought reasonably to know to be a counterfeit of any stamp certificate issued by the Collector; (f) has in his possession any certificate which he knows to be a counterfeit of any stamp certificate, intending to use or dispose of it as a genuine stamp certificate in order that it may be used as a genuine stamp certificate; or (g) uses as a genuine stamp certifica te knowing it to be a counterfeit of any stamp certificate, shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding five thousand ringgit. 73. (Deleted by Act 851). Fraud in relation to duty 74. Any person who practis es or is concerned in any fraudulent act, contrivance or device not specially provided for by law, with intent 

70 Laws of Malaysia ACT 378 to defraud the Government of any duty, shall be liable to a fine of five thousand ringgit. Recovery from persons leaving Malaysia 74A. (1) The Collector, where he is of the opinion that any person is about or likely to leave Malaysia without paying any duties, penalties or other sums required to be paid under this Act, may issue to any Commissioner of Police or Director of Immigration a certific ate containing particulars of those duties, penalties or sums so payable with a request for that person to be prevented from leaving Malaysia unless and until he pays all the duties, penalties or sums so payable or furnishes security to the satisfaction of the Collector for their payment. (1A) The certificate referred to in subsection (1) may be issued to any Commissioner of Police or Dir ector of Immigration through an electronic medium or by way of electronic transmission. (2) Subject to any order issued or made under any written law relating to banishment or immigration, any Commissioner of Police or Director of Immigration who receives a request under subsection (1) in respect of any person shall take or cause to be taken all such measures as may be necessary to give effect to it. (3) The Collector shall cause notice of the issue of the certificate under subsection (1) to be served personally or by registered post on the person to whom the certificate relates: Provided that the non-receipt of the notice by that person shall not invalidate anything done under this section. (4) Where a person in respect of whom a certificate has been issued under subsection (1)— (a) produces a written statement signed on or after the date of the certificate by the Colle ctor to the effect that all the duties, penalties or sums specified in the certificate have been paid or that security has been furnished for the payment; or 

 Stamp 71 (b) pays all the duties, penalties or sums specified in the certificate to the officer in charge of a police station or to an immigration officer, the statement or the payment, as the case may be, shall be sufficient authority for allowing that person to leave Malaysia. (5) No legal proceedings shall be instituted or maintained against the Government, a State Government, a police officer or any other public officer in respect of anything lawfully done under subsection 74B(2). (6) In this section— “Commissioner of Police” includes a Chief Police Officer; “Director of Immigration” means the Directo r of Immigration in *Peninsular Malaysia, Sabah or Sarawak; “immigration officer” means a public officer having official duties in connection with the control of immigration into Malaysia or any part of Malaysia. Leaving Malaysia without payment of duties, etc. 74B. (1) Any person, to whom a certificate has been issued in respect of him under section 74 A, voluntarily leaves or attempts to leave Malaysia without paying all the duties, penalties or sums specified in the certificate or without furnishing security to the satisfaction of the Collector for the payment thereof shall be guilty of an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding five thousand ringgit. (2) A police officer or immigration officer may arrest without warrant any person whom he reasonably suspects to be committing or is about to commit an offence under this section. *NOTE—All reference to “West Malaysia” shall be construed as reference to “Peninsular Malaysia”–see the Interpretation (Amendment) Act 1997 [Act A996], subsection 5(2). 

72 Laws of Malaysia ACT 378 (3) In this section, “immigration officer” has the same meaning as in section 74A. Institution and conduct of prosecution 75. (1) No prosecution in respect of any offence punishable under this Act shall be instituted without the sanction of the Public Prosecutor. (2) The Collector may compound any such offence. (3) The amount of any such composition shall be a debt due to the Government and shall be recoverable by any of the ways and means in force for the time being for the recovery of debts due to the Government. PART X MISCELLANEOUS Books, etc., in the custody of public officers may be inspected without fee 76. Every public officer havi ng in his custody any registers, books, records, papers, documents or proceedings the inspection whereof may tend to secure any duty, or to prove or lead to the discovery of any fraud or omission in relation to any duty, shall at all reasonable times permit any person authorized in writing by the Collector to inspect for such purpose the registers, books, records, papers, documents or proceedings and to take such notes and extracts as he may deem necessary without fee or charge. Collector may administer oaths 77. The Collector is authorized to administer all affirmations and oaths which may be necessary for the purposes of this Act. 

 Stamp 73 Electronic medium 77A. (1) For the purposes of this Act, the Collector may by an electronic medium allow a registered person, without the need for the instrument to be presented to the Collector— (a) to obtain an assessment of stamp duty and any penalty, if any, on an instrument; (b) to pay stamp duty and any penalty, if any, on an instrument by electronic funds transfer or other wise, in accordance with the assessment; (c) to obtain a stamp certificate in relation to the assessment; (d) to obtain an indorsement of stamp duty in a case where section 37 applies; (e) to obtain a review of an assessment in a case where section 38 A applies; or (f) to obtain a refund of duty paid in a case where section 57, 58 or 80 B, or subsection 21(7), subsection 39(4) or subsection 80(3) applies. (2) In this section, “registered person” means any person who applies to the Collector to register to use the electronic medium. (3) All conditions and specifications relating to the use of electronic medium shall be determined by the Collector. Electronic assessment and stamping of instruments 77B. (1) For the purposes of this Act, the issue of a stamp certificate for an instrument shall state an assessment of a duty and any penalty, if any, in relation to the instrument. (2) A registered person must, on receipt of a stamp certificate issued for the instrument by the Collector, immediately attach the stamp certificate to the instrument. 

74 Laws of Malaysia ACT 378 Tax identification number 77C. For the purposes of this Act, every person shall use the tax identification number assigned by the Director General under section 66 A of the Income Tax Act 1967. Revision of acts of Collector 78. All decisions, orders and acts of the Collector shall be open to revision by the Minister of Finance and may by him be ordered to be revised, altered or modified; and any instrument purporting to have been stamped or re-stamped by order of the Minister of Finance shall be received as duly stamped under this Act. Responsibility for loss or damage 79. The Government shall not be responsible for the loss of or for damage to any instrument tendered for stamping whilst in the custody of the Collector, nor shall any officer of the Stamp Office be responsible for such loss or damage, unless he has caused it wilfully, fraudulently or by gross negligence. Power to exempt, reduce or remit duties 80. (1) The Minister of Finance may by order published in the Gazette exempt from duty, which would otherwise be chargeable under this Act, any class of instrument or any of the instruments belonging to that class, or any instruments when executed by or in favour of any particular class of persons, or by or in favour of any members of that class. (1A) The Minister of Finance may in any particular case— (i) exempt from duty any instrument, or all instruments in relation to any scheme, which would otherwise be chargeable under this Act; or 

 Stamp 75 (ii) reduce or remit the duties with which any instrument, or all instruments in relation to any scheme, are chargeable under this Act. (2) The Minister of Finance may by order published in the Gazette reduce or remit, in the whole or any part of Malaysia, the duties with which any particula r class of instruments, or any of the instruments belonging to such class, or any instruments when executed by or in favour of any particular class of persons, or by or in favour of any members of such class, are chargeable. (3) Any order made under subse ction (1) or (2) or any exemption, reduction or remission made under subsection (1 A) may be made to operate retrospectively to any date, whether before or after the commencement of this Act, and may relate to duties chargeable under any written law repeale d by this Act as well as to duties chargeable under this Act, and, in the case of any such exemption, remission or reduction, any moneys paid in respect thereof shall be refunded. Fund for Tax Refund 80A. (1) There shall be paid from time to time into t he Fund established under section 111 B of the Income Tax Act 1967 such amount of duty collected under this Act as may be authorized by the Minister. (2) The money of the Fund referred to in subsection (1), shall be applied for the making of a refund of an y duty or any other payment required to be made by the Collector under this Act. (3) Section 14A of the Financial Procedure Act 1957 shall not apply to any refund of any duty or any other payment required to be made under this Act. (4) Where the Collecto r is authorized or required by this Act to make any refund of any duty or any other payment required under this Act, he shall certify the amount of the sum to be refunded or paid and cause the refund or payment to be made forthwith. 

76 Laws of Malaysia ACT 378 Power of Collector to remit duties 80B. The duty paid or payable by any person may be remitted wholly or in part on grounds of poverty by the Collector and, where the sum remitted has been paid, the Collector shall repay the same. Power to compound duties in case of issue of bonds, etc. 81. The Minister of Finance may by order published in the Gazette provide for the composition or consolidation of duties in the case of issues by any incorporated company or other body corporate of debentures, bonds or other marketable securities. Rules 82. The Minister of Finance may make rules— (a) (Deleted by Act 851); (aa) to prescribe the stamp certificate and official receipt to be issued under this Act for the payment of stamp duty, to provide for matters relating to issue and validit y of the stamp certificate and official receipt; (ab) to prescribe the means of digital stamping to be used under this Act for the payment of stamp duty, to provide for matters relating to the issuance and validity of the digital stamping; (b) (Deleted by Act 851); (c) generally for carrying out the purposes of this Act. Repeal 83. The Ordinance, Enactments and Proclamations mentioned in the Fourth Schedule are hereby repealed to the extent specified in the third column of such Schedule: 

 Stamp 77 Provided that any su bsidiary legislation, appointments and exemptions made or granted under the written laws repealed by this section shall continue in force and have effect as if they had been made or granted under this Act until superseded by subsidiary legislation, appointments and exemptions made or granted under this Act. FIRST SCHEDULE [Section 4] INSTRUMENTS CHARGEABLE WITH STAMP DUTY Item Description of Instrument Proper Stamp Duty 1. (Repealed by Act 274). 2. AFFIDAVIT, STATUTORY DECLARATION OR DECLARATION IN WRITING on oath or affirmation, made before a person authorized by law to administer an oath RM10.00 Exemptions Affidavit or Declaration in writing made— (i) for the immediate purpose of being filed or used in any court or before any Judge or officer of any court; (ii) for the sole purpose of enabling any person to receive any pension or charitable allowance; (iii) by a surety for an officer of the Government with regard to the surety’s means; (iv) by any person on acceptance of an appointment in the service of the Government; 

78 Laws of Malaysia ACT 378 Item Description of Instrument Proper Stamp Duty (v) under section 8 of the *Post Office Act 1947; (vi) for renewal of Bills of Sale; (vii) by a public officer that he or she has attained the appropriate age entitling such officer to a pension; (viii) for the Collector under section 57 of this Act; or (ix) pursuant to any statute requirement or in accordance with the directions of any Government or Agency. 3. AGREEMENT for a lease … … … … … See lease 4. AGREEMENT OR MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT made under hand only, and not otherwise specially charged with any duty, whether the same is only evidence of a contract or obligatory on the parties from its being a written instrument. RM10.00 Exemptions Agreement or Memorandum: (a) for or relating to the sale of any goods, wares or merchandise other than a hire-purchase agreement; (b) for service or personal employment where the wages do not exceed RM300 per month, and any agreement between the master and mariners of any vessel or boat for wages; (c) the matter whereof is of a value of less than RM300; *NOTE—The Post Office Act 1947 [ Act 211] has since b een repealed by the Postal Services Act 1991 [Act 465]—see subsection 50(1) of Act 465 which then has been repealed by the Postal Services Act 2012 [Act 741]—see subsection 110(1) of Act 741. 

 Stamp 79 Item Description of Instrument Proper Stamp Duty (d) for the reference of any matter to arbitration; (e) for the payment of interest on money deposited in any bank or with any banker; (f) for the repurchase of negotiable certificate of deposit whose issue has been authorized by Bank Negara Malaysia. Note—An agreement for or relating to the supply of goods on hire, whereby the goods in consideration of periodical pay ments will or may become the property of the person to whom they are supplied, shall be charged with stamp duty as an agreement, or, if under seal, as a deed 4A. ( Deleted by Act A723). 5. ANNUITY: Conveyance in consideration of, and instrument creating by way of sale or gift See Conveyance on Sale and sections 19 and 22 Instrument creating by way of security The same duty as a charge or mortgage for the amount deemed to be secured thereby. 6. APPOINTMENT of a RECEIVER under a mortgage RM10.00 7. APPOINTMENT of a new TRUSTEE, and APPOINTMENT in execution of a Power, of any property, or of any share or interest in any property, by any instrument not being a Will RM10.00 8. (Deleted by Act 274). 9. (Deleted by Act 274). 10. (Deleted by Act 812). 

80 Laws of Malaysia ACT 378 Item Description of Instrument Proper Stamp Duty 11. (Deleted by Act 274). 12. ASSIGNMENT: By way of security or of any security See Charge Upon a sale or otherwise … … … See Conveyance 13. ASSURANCE … … … See Policy of Insurance 14. (Deleted by Act 274). 15. (Deleted by Act 274). 16. (Deleted by Act 274). 17. (Deleted by Act 476). 18. (Deleted by Act 476). 19. (Deleted by Act 476). 20. BILL OF SALE: Absolute … … … See Conveyance By way of security … … … See Charge 21. BOND for securing the payment or repayment of money or the transfer or retransfer of stock See Charge 22. BOND, COVENANT, LOAN, SERVICES, EQUIPMENT LEASE AGREEMENT OR INSTRUMENT of any kind whatsoever: (1) Being the only or pr incipal or primary security for any annuity (except upon the original creation thereof by way of sale or security, and except a superannuation annuity), or for any sum or sums of money at stated periods, not being interest for any sum secured by a duly sta mped instrument, nor rent reserved by a lease or tack— 

 Stamp 81 Item Description of Instrument Proper Stamp Duty (a) for a definite and certain period so that the total amount to be ultimately payable can be ascertained (b) for the term of life or any other indefinite period— for every RM100 and also for any fractional part of RM100 of the annuity or sum periodically payable The same ad valorem duty as a charge or mortgage for such total amount. RM 1.00 (2) Being a collateral or auxiliary or additional or substituted security for any of the above mentioned purposes where the principal or primary instrument is duly stamped— (a) where the total amount to be ultimately payable be ascertained One-fifth of the duty on the principal or primary security, but so as not to exceed RM10.00. (b) in any other case— 25 sen For every RM100 and also for any fractional part of RM100 of the annuity or sum periodically payable. (3) Being a grant or contract for payment of a superannuation annuity, that is to say a deferred life annuity granted or secured to any person in consideration of annual premiums payable until he attains a specified age, and so to commence on his attaining that age— RM10.00 (4) Being the security for payment or repayment of money made for the purpose of pursuing higher education in higher educational institutions or RM10.00 

82 Laws of Malaysia ACT 378 Item Description of Instrument Proper Stamp Duty pursuing any course of study in any institution. (5) Being the security for securing the payment for the provision of services or facilities or to other matters or things in connection with the lease of any immovable property. The same duty as a LEASE (6) Being the security for securing the payment or repayment of money for the purchase of goods (within the meaning given under the First Schedule of the Hire-Purchase Act 1967) in accordance with the conventional hire purchase and Syariah principles. RM10.00 23. BOND, CHARGE, MORTGAGE or other INSTRUMENT executed by way of INDEMNITY or of SECURITY for the due execution of an office, or for the discharge of liabilities, arising out of the execution thereof, or to account for money received by virtue thereof RM10.00 Exemptions (a) Bond executed by an officer of the Government or his surety to secure the due execution of an office or the due accounting for money or other payments secured by virtue thereof. (b) Bond for securing the refund to Government of amounts overpaid to persons appointed by Government officers to receive their salary or allowance when absent on leave. (c) Bonds required to be executed under the provisions of the Criminal Proce dure Code. 24. BOND on obtaining letters of administration where the estate exceeds RM50,000.00. RM10.00 

 Stamp 83 Item Description of Instrument Proper Stamp Duty Exemptions Bond given by any person when the estate to be administered does not exceed RM50,000.00 in value. 25. BOND of any kind whatsoeve r not specifically charged with any duty RM10.00 26. (Deleted by Act 274). 27. CHARGE OR MORTGAGE, AGREEMENT FOR A CHARGE OR MORTGAGE (including that under the Syariah) , BOND, COVENANT, DEBENTURE (not being a marketable security), BILL OF SALE by way of security and WARRANT OF ATTORNEY to confess and enter up judgment: (a) Being the only or principal or primary security (other than an equitable mortgage or an assignment of receivables or the kind mentioned in paragraph (d)) for the payment or repayment of money— (i) where the loan is to a small and medium enterprise or financing is provided to a small and medium enterprise according to the Syariah— For an amount not exceeding RM250,000 of the aggregate loans or of the aggregate financing under the syariah in a calendar year RM0.50 for every RM1,000 or fractional thereof For each additional RM1,000 not exceeding RM1,000,000 RM2.50 for every RM1,000 or fractional thereof For each additional RM1,000 or part thereof RM5.00 

84 Laws of Malaysia ACT 378 Item Description of Instrument Proper Stamp Duty (ii) where the loans is a foreign currency loan or the fina ncing was made according to the syariah in currencies other than the ringgit RM5.00 for every RM1,000 or part thereof (iii) in any other case— For each RM1,000 or part thereof RM5.00 (b) Being a collateral or auxiliary or additional or substituted security (other than an equitable mortgage) or by way of further assurance for the above-mentioned purpose where the principal or primary security is duly stamped. One-fifth of the duty on the principal or security but so as not to exceed RM10.00. (c) An equitable mortgage … … One-half of the duty which would be chargeable on a mortgage for the amount secured. (d) A charge or a mortgage on or an assignment by way of security of accounts receivables to a bank, merchant bank or finance company licensed under the *Banking and Financial Institutions Act 1989 [ Act 372 ] or under the **Islamic Banking Act 1983 [ Act 276] or a scheduled institution as defined under section 2 of the *Banking and Financial Institutions Act 1989 or any statutory body, agency of the Government or of the State Government, or any company in which the Government or the State Government has interest, which RM10.00 *NOTE―The Banking and Financial Institutions Act 1989 [ Act 372 ] was repealed by the Financial Services Act 2013 [Act 758]—see section 271 of Act 758. **NOTE―The Islamic Banking Act 1983 [ Act 276 ] was repealed by the Islamic Financial Services Act 2013 [Act 759]—see section 282 of Act 759. *NOTE―The Banking and Financia l Institutions Act 1989 [ Act 372 ] was repealed by the Financial Services Act 2013 [Act 758]—see section 271 of Act 758. 

 Stamp 85 Item Description of Instrument Proper Stamp Duty provides financing to a small and medium enterprise , pursua nt to an agreement for discounting invoices or hire purchase receivables (e) Transfer, assignment or disposition of any charge or mortgage, bond, covenant or debenture (not being a marketable security) or of any money or stock secured) by any su ch instrument or by any warrant of attorney to enter up judgment or by any judgment Two-fifths of the duty which would be chargeable on a charge or mortgage for the amount transferred. And also where any further money is added to the money already secured The same duty as a principal security for such further money. (f) (Deleted by Act A723). (g) Charge or mortgage executed in pursuance of a duly stamped agreement for the same, on production of such agreement to the Collector RM10.00 (h) In any other case … … RM10.00 28. (Deleted by Act 274). 29. CHEQUE (unless compounded for) 15 cent 29A. CONSTITUTION OF A COMPANY RM 200.00 30. CONTRACT See Agreement. 31. CONTRACT NOTE: Relating to the sale of any shares, stock or marketable securities in companies incorporated in Malaysia or elsewhere— (a) For ever y RM1,000 or fractional part of RM1,000 of the value of any shares or stock RM1.50 

86 Laws of Malaysia ACT 378 Item Description of Instrument Proper Stamp Duty (b) For ever y RM1,000 or fractional part of RM1,000 of the value of any marketable securities RM1.00 32. CONVEYANCE, ASSIGNMENT, TRANSFER OR ABSOLUTE BILL OF SALE: (a) On sale of any property (except stock, shares, marketable securities and accounts receivables or book debts of the kind mentioned in paragraph (c)) For every RM100 or fractional part of RM100 of the amount of the money value of the consideration or the market value of the property, whichever is the greater— (i) RM1.00 on the first RM100,000; (ii) RM2.00 on any amount in excess of RM100,000 but not exceeding RM500,000; (iii) RM3.00 on any amount in excess of RM500,000 but not exceeding RM1,000,000; (iv) RM4.00 on any amount in excess of RM1,000,000. (aa) On sale of any property (except stock, shares, marketable securities and accounts receivables or book debts of the kind mentioned in paragraph (c)) to a foreign company or a person who is not a citizen and not a permanent resident RM4.00 for every RM100 or fractional part of RM100 of the amount of the money value of the consideration or the market value of the property, whichever is the greater. 

 Stamp 87 Item Description of Instrument Proper Stamp Duty (b) On sale of any stock, shares or marketable securities, to be computed on the price or value thereof on the date of transfer, whichever is the greater— RM3.00 For every RM1,000 or fractional part of RM1,000 (c) On the absolute sale of any accounts receivables or book debts to a bank, merchant bank, or finance company licensed under the *Banking and Financial Institutions Act 1989 or under the **Islamic Banking Act 1983 or a scheduled inst itution as defined under section 2 of the Banking and Financial Institutions Act 1989 or any statutory body, agency of the Government or of the State Government, or any company in which the Government or the State Government has interest, which provides fi nancing to a small and medium enterprise , pursuant to a factoring agreement RM10.00 (d) Of any property by way of security or any security other than a marketable security See Charge (e) Of any property as above where the transaction is between trus tees and where— (i) the beneficial interest in the property passes Duty as in (a), (b), or (c) (ii) the beneficial interest in the property does not pass RM10.00 *NOTE―The Banking and Financial Institutions Act 1989 [ Act 372 ] was repealed by the Financial Services Act 2013 [Act 758]—see section 271 of Act 758. **NOTE―The Islamic Banking Act 1983 [ Act 276] was repealed by the Islamic Financial Services Act 2013 [Act 759]—see section 282 of Act 759. 

88 Laws of Malaysia ACT 378 Item Description of Instrument Proper Stamp Duty (f) Of any property, for the purpose of effectuating the appointment of a new trustee or the retirement of a trustee although no new trustee is appointed RM10.00 (g) Of any property by way of settlement See Settlement (h) Of any property— (i) by way of gift (whether by way of voluntary disposition or otherwise) (ii) by way of release or renunciation by a beneficiary of a deceased estate to another beneficiary entitled under the same estate See Gift and subsection 16(1) RM10.00 (i) Of a ny kind not otherwise specially charged with duty RM10.00 Exemptions (a) Transfers on sale of land for the recovery of land revenue; (b) Transfers by endorsement— (i) of a bill of exchange, cheque or promissory note; (ii) of a bill of lading, warrant for goods or other mercantile document of title to goods; (iii) of a policy of insurance other than a policy of life insurance; (iv) of charges on rates and taxes authorized by any written law for the time being in force in Malaysia; (v) of securities of the Government of Malaysia or of any State; 

 Stamp 89 Item Description of Instrument Proper Stamp Duty (c) Transfer of units of a unit trust; (d) Transfer or assignment on sale of any copyright, trade mark, patent or any similar right. 33. (Deleted by Act 274). 34. COUNTERPART OR DUPLICATE of any instrument chargeable with duty, and in respect of which the proper duty has been paid— (a) If the duty with which the original instrument is chargeable does not exceed RM10.00 The same duty as the original (b) In any other case RM10.00 35. COVENANT: Any separate instrument or deed of covenant (not being an ins trument or deed chargeable with ad valorem duty as a conveyance or charge or mortgage) made on the sale, charge or mortgage of any property, or of any right or interest therein, and relating solely to the conveyance or enjoyment of or the title to the property sold, charged or mortgaged, or to the production of the documents of title relating thereto, or to all or any of the matters aforesaid RM10.00 36. DEBENTURE … … … … See Marketable Security and Charge. 37. DECLARATION of any use or t rust of or concerning any property by any writing, not being a will, or an instrument chargeable with duty as a settlement RM10.00 38. DEED of any kind not described in this Schedule RM10.00 39. DISCHARGE OF CHARGE See Re-Conveyance, etc. 40. DISSOLUTION OF PARTNERSHIP See Partnership. 

90 Laws of Malaysia ACT 378 Item Description of Instrument Proper Stamp Duty 41. DUPLICATE See Counterpart. 42. EQUITABLE MORTGAGE See Charge (or Mortgage). 43. EXCHANGE. Any instrument whereby an exchange of any property is effected. (a) In the case specified in section 20 A: see that section; (b) In any other case: RM10.00. 44. (Deleted by Act 274). 45. FURTHER CHARGE See Charge. 46. GIFT See subsection 16(1). 47. INDEMNITY BOND See Bond (Item 23). 48. INSURANCE See Policy of Insurance. 49. LEASE OR AGREEMENT FOR LEASE of any immovable property and for securing the payment for the provision of services or facilities or to other matters or things in connection with such lease: (a) Without fine or premium when the average rent and other considerations calculated for a whole year— When the Lease is for a period Not exceeding one year Exceeding one but not exceeding three years Exceeding Three years or for any indefinite period (i) Does not exceed RM2,400 Nil Nil Nil (ii) For every RM250 or part thereof in excess of RM2,400 1.00 2.00 4.00 (b) In consideration of a fine or premium and without rent The same duty as for a conveyance for a sum equal to the amount of such consideration. 

 Stamp 91 Item Description of Instrument Proper Stamp Duty (c) In cons ideration of a fine or premium and reserving a rent or other considerations The same duty as for a conveyance on sale in consideration of the fine or premium and a lease for the rent. (d) Where a percentage or proportion, or the value of a percentage or proportion, of the produce of the land is reserved or payable to the lessor RM10.00 Note—This duty is in addition to any duty which may be chargeable under (a), (b) or (c) above on account of any specified rent, fine or premium (e) In pursuance of a duly stamped agreement for the same on production of such agreement to the Commissioner RM10.00 (f) In any other case RM10.00 Exemption Agricultural Lease or Agreement for Agricultural Lease for any definite term not exceeding three years when the rent reserved does not exceed two hundred ringgit a year. 49A. LEASE OR AGREEMENT FOR LEASE UNDER THE PRINCIPLES OF AL-IJARAH of the Syariah law for the purpose of financing or securing repayment of money. The same ad valorem duty as upon a charge or mortgage for such total amount. 50. LETTER OF GUARANTEE RM10.00 50A. LETTER OF HYPOTHECATION RM10.00 51. LETTER OF ALLOTMENT AND LETTER OF RENUNCIATION or any document having the effect of a letter of allotment of shares in any company or proposed company or in respect of any loan raised or proposed to be raised by any company or proposed company RM10.00 

92 Laws of Malaysia ACT 378 Item Description of Instrument Proper Stamp Duty 52. MARKETABLE SECURITY: (a) Not being a security transferable by delivery, for or in respect of the money thereby secured The same ad valorem duty according to the nature of the security upon a mortgage. (b) Being a security transferable by delivery 50 cent for every RM100 or fractional part of RM100 of the nominal value of the security. (c) Transfer, assignment, or disposition of a marketable security See Conveyance 53. (Deleted by Act 812). 54. (Deleted by Act 274). 55. (Deleted by Act 274). 56. (Deleted by Act A723). 57. PARTNERSHIP: (a) Instrument of ... ... RM10.00 (b) Dissolution of ... ... RM10.00 58. POLICY OF INSURANCE: (1) (a) Policy of Sea Insurance including time policies or policies for covering a vessel or her machinery or fittings whilst under construction or repair or on trial, whether the period exceeds twelve months or not RM10.00 (b) For poli cies containing a continuation clause, additional duty RM10.00 NOTE—When a policy of sea insurance is drawn in a set according to the custom of marine 

 Stamp 93 Item Description of Instrument Proper Stamp Duty insurers and one of the set is duly stamped, the other or others of the set shall, unl ess issued or in some manner negotiated apart from such duly stamped policy, be exempt from duty; and, upon proof of the loss or destruction of a duly stamped policy forming one of a set, any other policy of the set which has not been issued or in any manner negotiated apart from such lost or destroyed policy may although unstamped, be admitted in evidence to prove the contents of such lost or destroyed policy. (2) FIRE POLICY— For all pol icies and renewals irrespective of the sum insured or the term RM10.00 (3) ACCIDENT POLICY and policy of Insurance for any payment agreed to be made during the sickness of the insured person or his incapacity from personal injury, or by way of indemnity against loss or damage of or to any property of the insured person. RM10.00 (4) LIFE POLICY— RM10.00 Exemption Where the sum insured does not exceed RM5, 000. (5) RE-INSURANCE BY AN INSURANCE COMPANY which has granted a Policy of Sea Insurance or a Policy of Fire Insurance with another Company by w ay of indemnity or guarantee, against the payment on the original insurance of a certain part of the sum insured thereby irrespective of the sum insured or the term RM10.00 

94 Laws of Malaysia ACT 378 Item Description of Instrument Proper Stamp Duty (6) THIRD PARTY POLICY— (a) Covering liability of the insured towards others RM10.00 (b) WORKMEN’S COMPENSATION (EMPLOYER’S LIABILITY): Policy covering the liability of the insured to pay compensation to a workman or employee in regard to sickness or personal injury RM10.00 (7) COMPREHENSIVE POLICY— Combining any two or more of the following risks —fire, personal injury, or sickness of the insured, damage, loss, theft and third party claims RM10.00 (8) Any other Ins urance Policy not specifically provided for— RM10.00 General Exemption Letter of cover or engagement to issue a policy of insurance: Provided that unless such letter or engagement bears the stamp prescribed by this Act for such policy nothing shall be claimable thereunder, not shall it be available for any purpose except to compel the delivery of the policy therein mentioned. 59. POWER OR LETTER OF ATTORNEY: RM10.00 Exemption For the sole purpose of appointment or authorizing any person to vote as proxy at a meeting of a Company or Association 

 Stamp 95 Item Description of Instrument Proper Stamp Duty 60. PROMISSORY NOTE: (a) executed in favour of a bank, merchant bank or borrowing company in Malaysia approved by the Minister of Finance RM10.00 (b) others RM10.00 61. PROTEST OF NOTE, that is to say, any declaration in writing made by a Notary Public, or other person lawfully acting as such, attesting the dishonour of a promissory note RM10.00 62. (Deleted by Act 274). 63. (Deleted by Act 274). 64. (Deleted by Act 476). 65. RECONVEYANCE OF CHARGED OR MORTGAGED PROPERTY, RE ASSIGNMENT, RELEASE, DISCHARGE, SURRENDER OR RENUN CIATION of any security or of the benefit thereof or of the money thereby secured: Same duty as charge itself but subject to a maximum of RM10.00 66. RELEASE OR RENUNCIATION that is to say, any instrument whereby a person releases any property: (a) If on sale … … … … The same duty as a conveyance on sale. (b) If by way of security … … … … The same duty as a charge or mortgage. (c) If by way of gift … … … … The same duty as a conveyance by way of gift. (d) In any other case not otherwise specially charged with duty RM10.00 67. REVOCATION of Power or Letter of Attorney The same duty as is payable on the Power or Letter of Attorney 

96 Laws of Malaysia ACT 378 Item Description of Instrument Proper Stamp Duty 68. REVOCATION of any use or trust of any property by any writing not being a will. RM10.00 69. SETTLEMENT being an Instrument of Settlement or Agreement for a settlement See section 16 and item 32: Conveyance 70. (Deleted by Act 513). 71. SHARE WARRANT OR STOCK CERTIFICATE to bearer RM1.00 for every RM 100 or fractional part of RM100 of the nominal value of the shares or stock specified in the warrant 72. (Deleted by Act 274). 73. SUBSTITUTION UNDER OR IN VIRTUE OF A POWER OF ATTORNEY and any such instrument cancelling or varying any such substitution The same duty as is payable on the Power or Letter of Attorney 74. SURRENDER OF CHARGE See Reconveyance, etc. 75. SURRENDER OF LEASE: (a) When the duty with which the lease is chargeable does not exceed RM10.00 The duty with which su ch lease is chargeable (b) In any other case RM10.00 76. TRANSFER See Conveyance 77. TRUST See Declaration and Conveyance 78. TRUST RECEIPT granted on the occasion of a loan or overdraft on goods, if unattested RM10.00 79. (Deleted by Act 274). 80. (Deleted by Act 274). 

 Stamp 97 GENERAL EXEMPTIONS [Section 35] 1. All instruments of any kind whatsoever, and all counterparts or duplicates of such instruments, made or executed by or on behalf or in favour of a Ruler of a State or the Government of Malaysia or of any State, where, but for this exemption, the Ruler or the Government would be liable to pay the duty chargeable in respect of such instrument. The above exemption does not extend to any instrument or writing signed or executed by any off icer as Official Administrator (or, in the case of Sabah, as Administrator General) or Public Trustee or by a receiver appointed by the Court; or to any instrument rendered necessary by any written law or order of Court; or to a sale made for the recovery of an arrear of revenue or in satisfaction of a decree or order of Court. 2. Any grant or lease made on behalf of the Government by virtue of the *National Land Code [Act 56 of 1965] or the National Land Code (Penang and Malacca Titles) Act 1963 [ Act 518] or the Land Ordinance of Sabah [ Sabah Cap. 68] or the Land Ordinance of Sarawak [Sarawak Cap. 81]. 3. Any instrument for the sale, transfer or other disposition, either absolutely or by way of charge or otherwise, of any ship or vessel or any part, inte rest, share or property of or in any ship or vessel registered or licensed under the Merchant Shipping Ordinance 1952 or under any law for the time being in force in any part of Malaysia. 4. Any instrument relating exclusively to immovable property situa ted out of Malaysia or relating exclusively to things done or to be done out of Malaysia. 5. All instruments relating solely to the business of any society registered under any written law relating to co -operative societies, and executed by an officer or member of such society, the duty on which would, but for the exemption hereby granted, be payable by such officer or member. 6. An instrument executed pursuant to a scheme of financing approved by the Central Bank, the Labuan Financial Services Authorit y, the Malaysia Co -operative Societies Commission or the Securities Commission as a scheme which is in accordance with the principles of Syariah, where such instrument is an additional instrument strictly required for the purpose of compliance with those p rinciples but which will not be required for any other schemes of financing. *NOTE—The National Land Code [Act 56 of 1965] has been revised and was named the National Land Code [Revised-2020] [Act 828] which comes into operation on 15 October 2020. 

98 Laws of Malaysia ACT 378 7. (Deleted by Act A723). 8. (Deleted by Act A723). 9. (Deleted by Act A723). 10. (Deleted by Act A723). SECOND SCHEDULE [Section 7] (Deleted by Act 851) THIRD SCHEDULE [Section 33] DUTY BY WHOM PAYABLE Nature of Instrument and the Item Number thereto in First Schedule Person liable to pay Duty 1. AGREEMENT OR MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT—No. 4 The person by whom the instrument is first executed 2. BOND—Nos. 21, 22, 23 and 25 The obligor or other person giving the security 3. CHARGE OR MORTGAGE—No. 27 The chargor, mortgagor or obligor 4. CONTRACT—No. 30 The person by whom the instrument is first executed 4A. CONTRACT NOTE—No. 31 The perso n on whose account the purchase or sale is made 5. CONVEYANCE—No. 32 The grantee or transferee 6. (Repealed by Act 274). 7. Exchange—No. 43 The parties in equal shares 

 Stamp 99 8. LEASE OR AGREEMENT FOR LEASE—No. 49: (a) Lease or agreement The lessee (b) Counterpart The lessor 9. (Repealed by Act A723). 10. RE-CONVEYANCE—No. 65 The transferee or assignee or the person redeeming the security FOURTH SCHEDULE [Section 83] REPEAL No. Title Extent of Repeal F.M.S. Cap. 135 The Stamp Enactment The whole Johore Enactment No. 137 The Stamp Enactment The whole Kedah Enactment No. 114 Enactment No. 114 (Stamps) The whole in so far as it relates to stamp duties Kelantan Enactment No. 7 of 1937 The Stamp Enactment 1937 The whole Trengganu Enactment No. 19 of 1356 The Stamps Enactment The whole in so far as it relates to stamp duties S.S. Cap. 228 The Stamp Ordinance The whole B.M.A. Proclamation No. 37 The Stamps Proclamation The whole B.M.A. Proclamation No. 59 The Powers of A ttorney (Stamping) Proclamation The whole 

100 Laws of Malaysia ACT 378 No. Title Extent of Repeal B.M.A. Proclamation No. 66 The Stamp Duties Proclamation The whole NOTE—The Stamp Ordinance of Sabah [ Sabah Cap. 137] (except section 83), the Stamp Ordinance of Sarawak [Sarawak Cap. 32] and the Stamp (Unnumbered Shares) Act 1962 [Act 26/62] were repealed by the Stamp (Amendment and Extension) Act 1989 [Act A723]. FIFTH SCHEDULE [Subsection 8(1)] (Deleted by Act 851). SIXTH SCHEDULE [Subsection 15A(3)] PROVISIONS RELATING TO SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES PROVISIONS FOR DETERMINING AMOUNT OF CAPITAL HELD THROUGH OTHER COMPANIES 1. Where, in the case of a number of companies, the first directly owns issued share capital of the second and the second directly owns issued share capital of the third, then, for the purposes of this Schedule, the first shall be deemed to own issued share capital of the third through the second, and, if the third directly owns issued share capital of a fourth, the first shall be deemed to own issued share capital of the fourth through the second and the third, and the second shall be deemed to own issued share capital of the fourth through the third, and so on. 2. In this Schedule— (a) any number of companies of which the first directly owns issued share capital of the sec ond and the second directly owns issued share capital of the third and so on, and, if they are more than three, any three or more of them, are referred to as a “series”; (b) in any series— 

 Stamp 101 (i) that company which owns issued share capital of another through the remainder is referred to as “the first owner”; (ii) that other company the issued share capital of which is so owned is referred to as “the last owned company”; (iii) the remainder, if one only, is referred to as an “intermediary” or, if more than one, as “a chain of intermediaries”; (c) a company in a series which directly owns issued share capital of another company in the series is referred to as an “owner”; (d) any two companies in a series of which one owns issued share capital of the other directly, and not through one or more of the other companies in the series, are referred to as being directly related to one another. 3. Where every owner in a series owns the whole of the issued share capital of the company to which it is directly related, the first owner shall be deemed to own through the intermediary or chain of intermediaries the whole of the issued share capital of the last owned company. 4. Where one of the owners in a series owns a fraction of the issued share capital of the company to which i t is directly related, and every other owner in the series owns the whole of the issued share capital of the company to which it is directly related, the first owner shall be deemed to own that fraction of the issued share capital of the last owned company through the intermediary or chain of intermediaries. 5. Where— (a) each of two or more of the owners in a series owns a fraction, and every other owner in the series owns the whole, of the issued share capital of the company to which it is directly related; or (b) every owner in a series owns a fraction of the issued share capital of the company to which it is directly related, the first owner shall be deemed to own through the intermediary or chain of intermediaries such fraction of the issued share capital of the last owned company as results from the multiplication of those fractions. 6. Where the first owner in any series owns a fraction of the issued share capital of the last owned company in that series through the intermediary or chain of intermediaries in that series, and also owns another fraction or other fractions of the issued share capital of the last owned company, either— (a) directly; 

102 Laws of Malaysia ACT 378 (b) through an intermediary or intermediaries which is not a member or are not members of that series; (c) through a chain or chains of intermediaries of which one or some or all are not in that series; or (d) in a case where the series consists of more than three companies, through an intermediary or intermediaries which is a member or are members of the series, or through a chain or chains of intermediaries consisting of some but not all of the companies of which the chain of intermediaries in the series consists, then, for the purpose of ascertaining the amount of the issued share capital of the last owned company owned by the first owner, all those fractions shall be aggregated and the first owner shall be deemed to own the sum of those fractions. 

103 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 378 STAMP ACT 1949 LIST OF AMENDMENTS Amending law Short title In force from F.M. Ord. 70/1950 Stamp (Amendment) Ordinance 1950 111950 F.M. Ord. 15/1953 Stamp (Amendment) Ordinance 1953 301953 F.M. Ord. 67/1953 Stamp (Amendment) Ordinance 1953 241953 L.N. 576/1954 Notification–Amendment of First Schedule 011955 L.N. 254/1955 Notification–Amendment of First Schedule 041955 F.M. Ord. 23/1955 Stamp (Amendment) Ordinance1955 051949 and 151955 L.N. 113/1956 Minister of Finance Order 1956–s 4 021956 L.N. 332/1958 Federal Constitution (Modification of Laws) (Ordinance and Proclamations) Order 1958 131958 Act 91 Courts of Judicature Act 1964 161963 Singapore Act 9/1965 Republic of Singapore Independence Act 1965 091965 Act 79/1965 Companies Act 1965 – First Schedule 151966 Act 5/1967 Stamp Duty (Special Provisions) (Malaysia) Act 1967 011967 Act 60/1967 Stamp (Amendment) Act 1967 All provisions other than section 2 and the First 

104 Laws of Malaysia ACT 378 Amending law Short title In force from Schedule (except the amendment of section 80 of F.M. Ordinance No. 59 of 1949) 01-04 1967; Section 2 and the First Schedule (except as aforesaid) 301967 P.U. (B) 391/1973 Resolution of Dewan Rakyat amending First Schedule 311973 P.U. (B) 392/1973 Resolution of Dewan Negara amending First Schedule 311973 Act A15 Stamp (Amendment) Act 1969 Not yet in force Act A160 Stamp (Amendment) Act 1973 291973 Act A224 Stamp (Amendment) Act 1974 291974 Act 160 Act A408 Malaysian Currency (Ringgit) Act 1975 Stamp (Amendment) Act 1977 291975 021977 Act 241 Finance Act 1981 Chapter V; 011981 P.U. (A) 58/1982 Stamp Duty (Amendment) Order 1982 051982 Act 274 Finance (No. 2) Act 1982 Chapter IV; 011983 Act 293 Finance Act 1983 Chapter V; 011984 Act 309 Finance Act 1984 Chapter V; 011985 Act A587 National Land Code (Amendment) Act 1984 251985 

 Stamp 105 Amending law Short title In force from Act A723 Stamp (Amendment and Extension) Act 1989 011989; paragraph 5(b): 011990 Act 421 Finance (No. 2) Act 1990 Chapter V; 011990 P.U. (A) 470/1990 Revision of Laws (Stamp Act) Order 1990 021990 P.U. (A) 40/1991 Stamp Duty (Amendment) Order 1991 011991 P.U. (A) 472/1991 Stamp Duty (Amendment) (No. 2) Order 1991 011992 Act 476 Finance Act 1992 Chapter VI; 011992 Act 497 Finance Act 1993 Chapter III; 011993 Act 513 Finance Act 1994 Chapter IV; 011994 Act 531 Finance Act 1995 Chapter IV; 011995 Act 544 Finance Act 1996 Chapter V; 011996 except s. 25: 011995 Act 578 Finance Act 1998 Chapter V; 011998 Act 600 Finance Act 2000 Chapter IV; 301999; section 20; 162000; section 21 Act 608 Finance (No. 2) Act 2000 Chapter V; 012001 P.U. (A) 511/2000 Stamp Duty (Amendment) Order 2000 012001 

106 Laws of Malaysia ACT 378 Amending law Short title In force from Act 619 Finance Act 2002 Chapter IV; 012002 Act 624 Finance (No. 2) Act 2002 Chapter IV; 012003 Act 639 Finance Act 2004 Chapter V; 112004 Act 644 Finance Act 2005 s.51, 52, 53, 55 and 56: 012005; s.54: 012006 Act 661 Finance Act 2006 Chapter IV; 022006 Act 683 Finance Act 2007 Chapter III; 012008 Act 693 Finance Act 2009 Chapter III, 012009 Act 702 Finance Act 2010 Chapter III; 012010 Act A1380 Stamp (Amendment) Act 2010 012010 Act 719 Finance Act 2011 282011 First Schedule: 112010 Act 742 Finance Act 2012 Chapter III; 102012 Act 755 Finance Act 2013 112013 Act 761 Finance Act 2014 242014 Act 812 Finance Act 2018 1. Sections 64, 65, 66, 67 and paragraphs 68(a), (b), (c) and (e) ─ 

 Stamp 107 Amending law Short title In force from 282018 2. Paragraph 68(d) ─ 012019 Act 823 Finance Act 2019 Chapter IV; 012020 Act 831 Finance Act 2020 012021 Act 833 Finance Act 2021 012022 Act 845 Finance Act 2023 012023 Act 851 Finance (No. 2) Act 2023 012024 

108 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 378 STAMP ACT 1949 LIST OF SECTIONS AMENDED Section Amending authority In force from 2 L.N. 332/1958 Act 79/1965 Act 60/1967 Act 293 Act 309 Act A723 Act 476 Act 513 Act 608 Act 661 Act 683 Act 693 Act A1380 Act 812 Act 831 Act 851 131958 151966 301967 011984 011985 011989 011992 011994 012001 022006 012008 012009 012010 282018 012021 012024 3 Act A723 011989 3A Act 60/1967 301967 4 Act 309 011985 5A Act 241 Act A723 Act 661 011981 011989 022006 7 F.M. Ord.70/1950 F.M. Ord. 23/1955 L.N. 332/1958 Act A723 Act 608 111950 051949 131958 011989; 011990 012001 

 Stamp 109 Section Amending authority In force from Act 661 Act 693 Act 831 Act 851 022006 012009 012021 012024 8 Act 60/1967 Act A408 Act 719 Act 755 Act 851 301967 021977 282011 112013 012024 9 F.M. Ord. 70/1950 Act A723 Act 497 Act 513 Act 608 Act 619 Act 624 Act 661 Act 742 Act 755 Act 761 Act 812 Act 831 111950 011989 011993 011994 012001 012002 012003 022006 102012 112013 242014 282018 012021 11A Act 693 012009 12 Act 60/1967 Act 497 Act 693 Act 831 301967 011993 012009 012021 12A Act 60/1967 Act A723 Act 497 011967 011989 011993 13 Act A723 011989 14A Act A723 011989 15 F.M. Ord. 15/1953 Act 79/1965 Act 293 Act A723 Act 812 301953 151966 011984 011989 282018 

110 Laws of Malaysia ACT 378 Section Amending authority In force from Act 851 012024 15A Act A723 Act 812 011989 282018 16 Act 60/1967 Act 274 301967 011983 17 Act A723 011989 19 Act 309 011985 20 Act 309 011985 20A Act 274 011983 20B Act 309 Act 531 011985 011995 21 F.M. Ord. 70/1950 Act 309 Act A723 Act 644 111950 011985 011989 012005 27 Act A723 011989 29 Act 309 Act A723 011985 011989 29A Act 309 Act A723 011985 011989 30 Act A723 011989 32A Act A723 Act 608 011989 012001 33 F.M. Ord. 67/1953 Act A723 241953 011989 34 Act A723 Act 476 011989 011992 36 Act A723 Act 544 011989 011996 

 Stamp 111 Section Amending authority In force from Act 693 012009 36A Act 683 012008 36AA Act A1380 012010 36B Act 683 Act A1380 012008 012010 36C Act A1380 012010 36D Act 833 012022 37 Act 683 Act 693 Act A1380 Act 833 012008 012009 012010 012022 38 38A Act 683 Act A1380 Act 619 Act 683 Act A1380 012008 012010 012002 012008 012010 39 Act 619 Act 683 Act 833 Act 851 012002 012008 012022 012024 40 Act A723 Act 693 011989 012009 42 Act 476 Act 851 011992 012024 43 Act 476 Act A723 Act 644 Act 851 011992 011989 012005 012024 44 Act A723 Act 476 011989 011992 45 Act 476 011992 

112 Laws of Malaysia ACT 378 Section Amending authority In force from Act 851 012024 46 Act A723 011989 47 Act A723 Act 476 011989 011992 47A Act A723 Act 608 Act 619 Act 624 Act 761 011989 012001 012002 012003 242014 48 Act A723 Act 693 Act 831 Act 851 011989 012009 012021 012024 49 Act A723 011989 50 Act 831 012021 50A Act 693 012009 51 Act A723 011989 52 Act 60/1967 Act A723 301967 011989 53 Act A723 011989 54 Act 476 011992 55 Act 578 Act 831 011998 012021 57 Act A723 Act 661 Act 693 Act 833 Act 851 011989 022006 012009 012022 012024 58 Act A723 Act 833 011989 012022 

 Stamp 113 Section Amending authority In force from 59 Act A723 011989 59A Act A723 Act 693 011989 012009 60 Act A723 Act 851 011989 012024 60A Act 755 Act 851 112013 012024 61 Act A723 011989 62 Act A723 Act 476 011989 011992 63 Act A723 Act 476 011989 011992 64 Act A723 011989 65 Act A723 Act 476 011989 011992 66 Act A723 011989 67 Act A723 011989 69 Act A723 011989 70 Act A723 011989 71 Act A723 Act 851 011989 012024 72 Act A723 Act 851 011989 012024 72A Act 702 012010 73 Act 851 012024 74 Act A723 011989 74A Act A1380 012010 

114 Laws of Malaysia ACT 378 Section Amending authority In force from Act 831 012021 74B Act A1380 012010 75 Act A723 011989 77A Act 693 Act 833 012009 012022 77B Act 693 012009 77C Act 833 012022 80 L.N. 332/1958 Act 60/1967 Act 513 Act 608 Act 644 Act 661 Act 831 131958 011967 011994 012001 012005 022006 012021 80A Act 644 012006 80B Act 831 012021 82 L.N. 332/1958 Act A723 Act 693 Act 831 Act 851 131958 011989 012009 012021 012024 First Schedule F.M. Ord. 70/1950 L.N. 576/1954 L.N. 254/1955 F.M. Ord. 23/1955 L.N. 332/1958 Act 79/1965 P.U. (B) 391/1973 P.U. (B) 392/1973 Act A15 Act A160 Act 160 Act 274 Act 293 111950 011955 041955 151955 131958 151966 311973 311973 Not yet in force 291973 291975 011983 011984 

 Stamp 115 Section Amending authority In force from Act 309 Act A723 Act 421 P.U. (A) 470/1990 Act 476 Act 497 Act 513 Act 544 Act 600 Act 608 Act 619 Act 624 Act 639 Act 644 Act 661 Act 693 Act 702 Act 719 Act 742 Act 755 Act 812 Act 823 Act 833 Act 845 Act 851 011985 011989 011990 021990 011992 011993 011994 011995 301999 012001 012002 012003 112004 012005 022006 012009 012010 112010 102012 112013 282018; 012019 012020 012022 012023 012024 Second Schedule Act 274 Act A723 Act 476 Act 513 Act 600 P.U. (A) 511/2000 Act 702 Act 742 Act 755 Act 851 011983 011989 011992 011994 162000 012001 012010 102012 112013 012024 Third Schedule F.M. Ord. 67/1953 Act A723 Act 274 241953 011989 011983 Fifth Schedule Act A408 P.U. (A) 58/1982 P.U. (A) 40/1991 021977 051982 011991 

116 Laws of Malaysia ACT 378 Section Amending authority In force from P.U. (A) 472/1991 Act 513 Act 644 Act 719 Act 851 011992 011994 012005 282011 012024 Sixth Schedule Act A723 011989