LAWS OF MALAYSIA ONLINE VERSION OF UPDATED TEXT REPRINT Act 566 PERBADANAN TABUNG PENDIDIKAN TINGGI NASIONAL ACT 1997 As at 1 April 2013 

2 PERBADANAN TABUNG PENDIDIKAN TINGGI NASIONAL ACT 1997 Date of Royal Assent … … … … … 18 June 1997 Date of publication in the Gazette … … ... 30 June 1997 Latest amendment made by Act A1296 which came into operation on … … … … 20 July 2007 PREVIOUS REPRINTS First Reprint ... ... ... ... ... 2002 Second Reprint ... ... ... ... ... 2005 Third Reprint ... ... ... ... ... 2006 

3 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 566 PERBADANAN TABUNG PENDIDIKAN TINGGI NASIONAL ACT 1997 ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS PART I PRELIMINARY Section 1. Short title and commencement 2. Interpretation PART II THE TABUNG PENDIDIKAN TINGGI NASIONAL 3. Establishment of the Fund 4. Expenditure to be charged on the Fund PART III THE PERBADANAN TABUNG PENDIDIKAN TINGGI NASIONAL 5. Establishment of the Perbadanan 6. Common seal 7. The Board of Management 8. Alternate members 

4 Laws of Malaysia ACT 566 PART IV FUNCTIONS AND POWERS OF THE PERBADANAN Section 9. Functions of the Perbadanan 10. Powers of the Perbadanan 11. Power to receive deposits 11A. Guarantee of the Government 12. Regulations as to deposits 13. Power to establish insurance and unit trust schemes 14. Power to borrow 15. Power to invest 15A. Additional powers of the Perbadanan 16. Guarantee and indemnity 17. Committee 18. Delegation of functions 19. Power of Minister to give directions PART V EDUCATIONAL LOANS 20. Provision of educational loans in annual estimates 21. Disbursement of educational loans 22. Duty to maintain record of educational loans 22A. The Chief Executive may issue certificate to the Inspector General of Police or the Director General of Immigration to prevent recipient student leaving Malaysia in certain circumstances 23. Perbadanan to be responsible for the recovery and collection of repayments of educational loans 23A. Limitation for action founded on a contract for educational loans 24. Appointment of collection agents 25. Inland Revenue Board as collection agent 26. Commencement of repayment of educational loan 27. Recovery and collection of repayments of educational loans 

 Perbadanan Tabung Pendidikan Tinggi Nasional 5 28. Lawful methods for collection of repayments of educational loans 29. Employer to assist the Perbadanan and Inland Revenue Board 30. Certificate of Perbadanan to be conclusive 31. Payment of commission to collection agents PART VI CHAIRMAN, OFFICERS, SERVANTS 32. Chairman 33. Chief Executive 34. Appointment of officers and servants of the Perbadanan 35. Appointment of agents, consultants, etc. 36. (Deleted) 37. (Deleted) 38. (Deleted) 39. (Deleted) 40. (Deleted) 41. (Deleted) 42. (Deleted) 43. (Deleted) 44. (Deleted) 45. Perbadanan may adopt regulations, etc. 46. Protection from personal liability 47. Public Authorities Protection Act 1948 48. Public servants PART VII GENERAL 49. Power to make regulations 49A. Penalties for subsidiary legislation 50. Reserve Fund 51. Expenditure and preparation of estimates 

6 Laws of Malaysia ACT 566 52. Accounts and reports 53. Statutory Bodies (Accounts and Annual Reports) Act 1980 to apply 54. Obligation of secrecy 55. Penalty in the case of a continuing offence 56. Offences by bodies corporate 57. Things done in anticipation of the enactment of the Act 58. Conduct of civil proceedings 59. Power to compound SCHEDULE 

7 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 566 PERBADANAN TABUNG PENDIDIKAN TINGGI NASIONAL ACT 1997 An Act to establish the Tabung Pendidikan Tinggi Nasional, to incorporate the Perbadanan Tabung Pendidikan Tinggi Nasional, and to provide for related matters. [1 July 1997, P.U.(B)255/1997] BE IT ENACTED by the Seri Paduka Baginda Yang di -Pertuan Agong with the advice and consent of the Dewan Negara and Dewan Rakyat in Parliament assembled, and by the authority of the same, as follows: PART I PRELIMINARY Short title and commencement 1. (1) This Act may be cited as the Perbadanan Tabung Pendidikan Tinggi Nasional Act 1997. (2) This Act shall come into force on such date as the Minister may appoint by notification in the Gazette. Interpretation 2. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires— “Board” means the Board of Management es tablished under section 7; “Chairman” means the Chairman of the Board appointed under paragraph 7(2)(a); 

8 Laws of Malaysia ACT 566 “Chief Executive” means the principal executive officer of the Perbadanan appointed under section 33; “committee” means a committee established under section 17; “deposits” means the deposits received by the Perbadanan under section 11; “educational loan” means a loan approved and paid out by the Perbadanan to a student under this Act; “higher educational institution” means— (a) an institution of learning which provides education leading to the award of a diploma, degree or the equivalent of a diploma or degree established under— (i) the Universities and University Colleges Act 1971 [Act 30]; (ii) the Universiti Teknologi MARA Act 1976 [Act 173]; and (iii) the Private Higher Educational Institutions Act 1996 [Act 555]; (b) a polytechnic established and maintained by the Minister under the Education Act 1996 [Act 550]; and (c) any other higher educat ional institution established or deemed to have been established under the Education Act 1996 and which is determined by the Minister to be a higher educational institution for the purposes of this Act; “Fund” means the Tabung Pendidikan Tinggi Nasional established under section 3; “Inland Revenue Board” means the Inland Revenue Board of Malaysia established under section 3 of the Inland Revenue Board of Malaysia Act 1995 [Act 533]; 

 Perbadanan Tabung Pendidikan Tinggi Nasional 9 “Minister” means the Minister responsible for Higher Education; “Perbadanan” means the Perbadanan Tabung Pendidikan Tinggi Nasional established under section 5; “recipient student” means a student to whom has been approved, and who is in receipt of, an educational loan under this Act; “student” means a person receiving education, instruction or training of any description on a full-time or part-time basis from or in a higher educational institution. PART II THE TABUNG PENDIDIKAN TINGGI NASIONAL Establishment of the Fund 3. (1) For the purposes of this Act there is e stablished a fund called the “Tabung Pendidikan Tinggi Nasional” which shall be administered and controlled by the Perbadanan Tabung Pendidikan Tinggi Nasional. (2) The Fund shall consist of— (a) such moneys as may be allocated by the Government from time to time for the purposes of this Act; (b) all grants, donations, gifts, contributions and bequests made to or in favour of the Perbadanan; (c) deposits received by the Perbadanan under section 11; (d) moneys earned by the operation of any project, agency, scheme or enterprise financed from the Fund; (e) fees or other charges imposed by the Perbadanan under this Act; 

10 Laws of Malaysia ACT 566 (f) such moneys as may be paid from time to time to the Perbadanan from any financing or financial assi stance given by the Perbadanan, and all moneys from time to time falling due to the Perbadanan in respect of the repayment of any financing or financial assistance, including educational loans, given out of the Fund; (g) moneys borrowed by the Perbadanan under section 14; (h) any property, investment, mortgage, lease, tenancy, charge or debenture acquired by or vested in the Perbadanan; (i) moneys earned or arising from any property, investment, mortgage, lease, tenancy, charge or debenture acquired by or vested in the Perbadanan; (j) all other moneys or property which may in any manner become payable to or vested in the Perbadanan in respect of any matter incidental to its functions, powers or duties; and (k) all other moneys lawfully received by the Perbadanan. Expenditure to be charged on the Fund 4. The Fund may be expended for the purpose of— (a) the granting of educational loans to students for the payment of fees, educational equipment and aids, and cost of living expenses during the students’ period of study at a higher educational institution; (b) the financing of, or the granting of financial assistance to, students in higher educational institutions other than by way of educational loan; (c) establishing insurance and unit trust schemes; 

 Perbadanan Tabung Pendidikan Tinggi Nasional 11 (d) repayments on borrowings and such other outgoings and expenditure as may be permitted by this Act or any regulation made under this Act; (e) administrative expenses including the remuneration, retirement benefits, gratuities and other allowances of the officers and servants of the Perbadanan; and (f) other expenses incidental to the management of the Fund and the functions of the Perbadanan including any moneys required to satisfy any judgment, decision, or award by any court or tribunal against th e Perbadanan, or any member of the Board or any committee, or any officer, servant or agent of the Perbadanan in respect of any act, neglect or default done or committed by him in carrying out the functions of the Perbadanan. PART III THE PERBADANAN TABUNG PENDIDIKAN TINGGI NASIONAL Establishment of the Perbadanan 5. (1) There is established a body corporate by the name of “Perbadanan Tabung Pendidikan Tinggi Nasional” which shall be responsible for the management of the Fund. (2) The Perbadanan sh all have perpetual succession and a common seal, and may sue and be sued in its name. (3) Subject to and for the purposes of this Act, the Perbadanan, upon such terms as it deems fit, may— (a) enter into contracts; (b) acquire, purchase, take, hold and enjoy movable and immovable property of every description; and 

12 Laws of Malaysia ACT 566 (c) convey, assign, surrender, yield up, charge, mortgage, demise, reassign, transfer, or otherwise dispose of, or deal with— (i) any movable or immovable property; and (ii) any interest in any movable or immovable property, vested in the Perbadanan. Common seal 6. (1) The common seal of the Perbadanan shall bear such device as the Perbadanan may approve and the seal may be broken, changed, altered and made anew by the Perbadanan from time to time as it may think fit. (2) The common seal shall be kept in the custody of the Chief Executive and shall be authenticated by him or by an officer authorized by the Perbadanan in writing. (3) All deeds, documents, and other instruments p urporting to be sealed with the common seal and authenticated in accordance with subsection (2) shall be deemed to ha ve been validly executed, until the contrary is proved. (4) Notwithstanding subsection (3), any document or instrument which if executed by a person not being a body corporate would not be required to be under seal may in like manner be executed by the Perbadanan, and any such document or instrument may be executed on behalf of the Perbadanan by an officer or servant of the Perbadanan gener ally or specially authorized by the Perbadanan in that behalf. (5) The common seal of the Perbadanan shall be officially and judicially noticed. 

 Perbadanan Tabung Pendidikan Tinggi Nasional 13 The Board of Management 7. (1) There is established the Board of Management of the Perbadanan which shall exercise the powers and perform the functions of the Perbadanan. (2) The Board shall consist of the following members: (a) the Chairman; (b) the Attorney General or his representative; (c) the Secretary General of the Ministry of Finance or his representative; (d) the Secretary General of the Ministry of Higher Education or his representative; (da) the Secretary General of the Ministry of Education or his representative; (e) the chief executive officer of the Inland Revenue Board or his representative; (f) the Chief Executive; and (g) not more than five other members. (3) The Chairman and members of the Board under paragraph (2)(g) shall be appointed by the Minister. (4) The Chairman and members of the Board under paragraph (2)(g) shall be from amongst persons of standing, achievement and experience in the academic field or from amongst professionals who possess relevant experience in educational, financial or commercial matters. 

14 Laws of Malaysia ACT 566 Alternate members 8. (1) The Minister may appoint a person to be an alternate member in respect of each of the members of the Board appointed under paragraphs 7(2)(f) and (g) to attend meetings of the Board in place of the member when the member is for any reason unable to attend. (2) When at tending meetings of the Board in place of a member, an alternate member or a representative of a member shall for all purposes be deemed to be a member of the Board. (3) An alternate member may resign his office at any time by giving a month’s notice in writing to the Minister. (4) The provisions of the Schedule shall apply to the members of the Board. PART IV FUNCTIONS AND POWERS OF THE PERBADANAN Functions of the Perbadanan 9. The functions of the Perbadanan shall be— (a) to provide and grant educati onal loans and financial assistance other than educational loans to students, and to provide services in administering, monitoring and collecting repayments of the loans; (b) to collect deposits and to design and provide a savings scheme for the purpose of sa ving towards higher education; and (c) to perform such other functions as are conferred on the Perbadanan by any written law. 

 Perbadanan Tabung Pendidikan Tinggi Nasional 15 Powers of the Perbadanan 10. (1) The Perbadanan shall have power to do all things expedient or reasonably necessary for or inci dental to the carrying out of its functions. (2) Without prejudice to the generality of subsection (1), the powers of the Perbadanan shall include power— (a) to enter into contracts; (b) to utilize all property of the Perbadanan, movable or immovable, in the interest of the Fund in such manner as the Perbadanan may think expedient including the raising of loans by mortgaging such property; (c) to engage in any activity, either by itself or in conjunction with other organizations, for the purpose of co -ordinating, streamlining or rationalizing the giving and administration of educational loans to students studying in higher educational institutions; (d) to impose fees or administrative charges for services rendered by the Perbadanan; (e) to grant loans and make adv ances to the officers and servants of the Perbadanan for any purpose specifically approved by the Perbadanan; (f) to provide recreational facilities and promote recreational activities for, and activities conducive to, the welfare of the officers and servants of the Perbadanan; (g) to provide training for the officers and servants of the Perbadanan and to grant loans or otherwise pay for such training; and (h) to do anything incidental to any of its powers. 

16 Laws of Malaysia ACT 566 Power to receive deposits 11. The Perbadanan may receive deposits from a person who is a citizen of Malaysia for the purpose of saving towards higher education for himself or any other person. Guarantee of the Government 11A. The repayment of all moneys deposited in the Perbadanan together with dividend is gu aranteed by the Government and, in the event that the Tabung Pendidikan Tinggi Nasional and the Reserve Fund of the Perbadanan shall be insufficient to pay the lawful claims of every depositor, such deficiency shall be charged on and paid out of the Federa l Consolidated Fund and the Minister shall certify such deficiency to the Dewan Rakyat at the earliest possible opportunity. Regulations as to deposits 12. The Perbadanan, with the approval of the Minister of Finance in relation to the deposits under s ection 11, may make regulations as to— (a) the manner and the terms and conditions under which deposits into the Fund are to be made; (b) the provision for separate accounts to be kept for each depositor; (c) the manner and the terms and conditions under which withdrawals are to be made of any amount standing to the credit of a depositor’s account; (d) the evidence to be produced on an application for withdrawal; and (e) any other matter pertaining to the making, and withdrawal, of deposits. 

 Perbadanan Tabung Pendidikan Tinggi Nasional 17 Power to establish insurance and unit trust schemes 13. (1) The Perbadanan, with the approval of the Minister and the consent of the Minister of Finance, may establish, either by itself or in conjunction with other bodies, institutions or organizations, insurance and unit trust schem es for the purpose of promoting the making of deposits under section 11. (2) The establishment of the insurance or unit trust scheme in subsection (1) shall be subject to the requirements and procedures of relevant written laws. Power to borrow 14. The Perbadanan may borrow, from time to time, in such form and for such period and upon such terms and conditions as to the time and method of repayment and otherwise, as the Minister, with the consent of the Minister of Finance, may approve, any moneys req uired by the Perbadanan for meeting any of its obligations or performing any of its functions or exercising any of its powers. Power to invest 15. (1) The moneys of the Fund, in so far as they are not immediately required to be expended by the Perbada nan under this Act, shall be invested wholly in investments in Malaysia in accordance with subsection (2). (2) The moneys of the Fund in subsection (1) may be invested in— (a) securities of the Government; (b) investments authorized by or under the Trustee Act 1949 [Act 208]; and (c) other securities or investments approved by the Minister of Finance. 

18 Laws of Malaysia ACT 566 (3) For the purposes of this section, “securities” has the same meaning as that assigned to “securities” under section 2 of the Securities Industry Act 1983 [Act 280]. Additional powers of the Perbadanan 15A. The Perbadanan may, with the approval of the Minister and the consent of the Minister of Finance— (a) where it appears to be requisite, advantageous or convenient for or in connection w ith the discharge of the functions, exercise of the powers and carrying on of the activities of the Perbadanan, enter into equity participation, partnership, joint -venture, undertaking or any other form of co -operation or arrangement in association, or otherwise, with— (i) an enterprise, a company, a private undertaking or a syndicate of persons constituted for the carrying on of business in Malaysia or elsewhere; (ii) the Federal Government or any State Government; (iii) a public body or authority; (iv) a commission; or (v) a person; and (b) establish or promote the establishment of companies under the Companies Act 1965 [ Act 125] to carry on or engage in any activity which has been planned or undertaken by the Perbadanan. 

 Perbadanan Tabung Pendidikan Tinggi Nasional 19 Guarantee and indemnity 16. The Perbadanan shall not issue any letter of guarantee or indemnity to a person under this Act without the written approval of the Minister of Finance. Committee 17. (1) For the purposes of performing the functions of the Perbadanan the Board may establis h such committees as it considers necessary, and with such terms of reference as it may specify; and each of such committee shall be chaired by a member of the Board. (2) Members of a committee established under subsection (1) may be appointed from among st members of the Board or such other persons as the Board thinks fit. (3) Persons who are disqualified from being members of the Board under the Schedule shall also be disqualified from being members of a committee. (4) A member of a committee shall h old office for such term as may be specified in his letter of appointment and is eligible for reappointment. (5) A member of a committee may resign at any time by giving notice in writing to the Chairman of the Board. (6) The Board may revoke the appoi ntment of any member of a committee without assigning any reason for the revocation. (7) Subject to this Act and directions given by the Board, a committee may regulate its own procedure. (8) Meetings of a committee shall be held at such times and places as the chairman of the committee may determine. 

20 Laws of Malaysia ACT 566 (9) A committee may invite any person to attend its meeting for the purpose of advising it on any matter under discussion but that person shall not be entitled to vote at the meeting. (10) A committee shall cause— (a) minutes of all its meetings to be maintained and kept in a proper form; and (b) copies of the minutes of all its meetings to be submitted to the Board as soon as practicable. (11) Members of a committee and any person invited under subsection (9) shall be paid such allowances and other expenses as the Board may determine, after consultation with the Minister. Delegation of functions 18. (1) The Board may delegate to a committee established under section 17 any of the functions an d powers of the Perbadanan as it may deem necessary or desirable except the power to make regulations. (2) Any function or power delegated under this section— (a) may be so delegated subject to such conditions or restrictions as the Board may impose either generally or specifically; and (b) shall be exercised or performed by the committee in the name and on behalf of the Board. (3) A delegation made under this section shall not preclude the Board itself from exercising or performing at any time any of the functions or powers so delegated. 

 Perbadanan Tabung Pendidikan Tinggi Nasional 21 Power of Minister to give directions 19. (1) The Board shall be responsible to the Minister. (2) The Minister may give direction not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act to the Board from time to time. (3) The Board shall give effect to all directions given under this section as soon as possible. PART V EDUCATIONAL LOANS Provision of educational loans in annual estimates 20. (1) The Perbadanan shall provide in its annual estimates under section 51 such sum of moneys, as may be agreed by the Minister, for the purposes of educational loans under this Act. (2) The provision of educational loans under this Act shall be charged to the Fund provided that the Perbadanan shall keep and maintain the Fund in credit at all times. Disbursement of educational loans 21. (1) The educational loans under this Act shall be given and disbursed to eligible students in such sums and manner as the Perbadanan may decide from time to time. (2) For the purpose of subsection ( 1), the Perbadanan may prescribe such means test as the Perbadanan deems necessary and expedient in order to determine and select students eligible for the educational loans. 

22 Laws of Malaysia ACT 566 Duty to maintain record of educational loans 22. (1) The Perbadanan shall k eep or maintain or cause to be kept or maintained a record of all educational loans paid out of the Fund and their repayments. (2) The record kept and maintained under subsection (1) shall include the following: (a) the particulars of the recipient st udent such as his identity card number, name and address; (b) the amount of the educational loan, its repayment schedule, the amount of each repayment required to be made, the date of the commencement of the repayment, and the records of the repayments; (c) the name of the higher educational institution where the recipient student is studying, the course of study, the length of study period and the tentative date of completion of study; and (d) such other particulars which the Perbadanan deems necessary or expedient for the purposes of this Act. The Chief Executive may issue certificate to the Inspector General of Police or the Director General of Immigration to prevent recipient student leaving Malaysia in certain circumstances 22A. (1) The Chief Executive may, where he is of the opinion that any recipient student is about or likely to leave Malaysia without paying any moneys due to the Perbadanan, issue to the Inspector General of Police or the Director General of Immigration a certificate containing the amounts payable to the Perbadanan with request for that recipient student to be prevented from leaving Malaysia unless and unitl he pays all the amounts payable to the Perbadanan or furnishes security to the satisfaction of the Chief Executive for their payment. 

 Perbadanan Tabung Pendidikan Tinggi Nasional 23 (2) Subject to any order issued or made under any written law relating to banishment or immigration, the Inspector General of Police or the Director General of Immigration upon receiving a request under subsection (1) in respect of any recipi ent student shall take or cause to be taken all such measures as may be necessary to give effect to it and which measures may include the use of reasonable force and the sizure, removal or retention of any certificate of identity and any passport, exit per mit or other travel document relating to that recipient student. (3) Where a recipient student in respect of whom a certificate has been issued under subsection (1) produces a written statement signed on or after the date of the issue of the certificate b y the Chief Executive or an authorized officer to the effect that moneys due to the Perbadanan specified in the certificate have been paid or that security has been furnished for their payment, the statement or the payment, as the case may be, shall be suf ficient authority for allowing that recipient student to leave Malaysia. (4) No legal proceedings shall be instituted or maintained against the Perbadanan, its officers and servants, the Government of Malaysia, a police officer or any public officer in re spect of anything lawfully done under this section. Perbadanan to be responsible for the recovery and collection of repayments of educational loans 23. (1) The Perbadanan shall be responsible for the recovery and collection of repayments of educational loans paid out to recipient students. (2) For the avoidance of doubt, an educational loan which is not repaid or in arrears shall be treated as a civil debt owed by the recipient student to the Perbadanan and the Perbadanan may avail itself of such means under the law for the recovery of such debt. 

24 Laws of Malaysia ACT 566 Limitation for action founded on a contract for educational loans 23A. Notwithstanding the provisions of any written law, any action founded on a contract for educational loans shall not be brought after the expiration of twelve years from the date on which the cause of action accrued. Appointment of collection agents 24. Without prejudice to the responsibility and powers of the Perbadanan to recover the repayments of educational loans under section 23, the Perbadanan, with the approval of the Minister and the concurrence of the Minister of Finance, may appoint such number of agents for the purpose of recovery of the educational loans. Inland Revenue Board as collection agent 25. Without prejudice to t he provisions of section 24, the Inland Revenue Board shall be appointed to be the collection agent for and on behalf of the Perbadanan for the recovery of educational loans due for repayment to the Perbadanan by recipient students. Commencement of repayment of educational loan 26. (1) It shall be the duty of a recipient student to repay his educational loan to the Perbadanan not later than six months from the date he completes or ceases to pursue the course of study in respect of which the loan was given in a higher educational institution. (2) Notwithstanding subsection (1) and subject to the terms and conditions of the educational loan agreement entered into between the Perbadanan and the recipient student, the Board, on an application by the recipient student made before the expiry of the six -month period in subsection (1), may extend the period of time for repayment of the educational loan upon such terms and conditions as the Board deems fit to impose. 

 Perbadanan Tabung Pendidikan Tinggi Nasional 25 Recovery and collection of repayments of educational loans 27. (1) For the purpose of the recovery and collection of the repayments of educational loans— (a) the Perbadanan shall provide the Inland Revenue Board or a collection agent appointed under section 24— (i) a copy of the record kept and m aintained under section 22; (ii) a certificate as may be prescribed signed by the Chief Executive or an authorized officer of the Perbadanan certifying the amount of the educational loan to be recovered in respect of each recipient student, and the date the educational loan is due for repayment; and (iii) such other particulars as may be requested by the Inland Revenue Board or collection agent; and (b) the Inland Revenue Board or the collection agent shall— (i) keep and maintain a record of the collecti on of the repayments made in respect of each recipient student in such manner and containing such particulars as the Inland Revenue Board or collection agent deems fit and necessary to show the true state of affairs of the collection of the repayments; (ii) furnish the Perbadanan a copy of the record kept and maintained under subparagraph (b)(i) within such period as may be agreed between the Perbadanan and the Inland Revenue Board or collection agent; and (iii) every three months commencing from the first collectio n of the repayments of the educational loans, pay to the Perbadanan the total sum of repayments collected under this Act together with such returns as the Inland Revenue Board or collection agent may receive on the sum so collected. 

26 Laws of Malaysia ACT 566 (2) The Inland Revenue Board or collection agent, in its sole discretion, may devise such administrative methods, procedures and processes to facilitate the collection of the repayments of educational loans that have fallen due to the Perbadanan. Lawful methods for collection of repayments of educational loans 28. For the purpose of this Act the Inland Revenue Board or collection agent may use such methods that are permitted under the law to give effect to the collection of the repayments of educational loans in respect of each recipient student. Employer to assist the Perbadanan and Inland Revenue Board 29. (1) It shall be the duty of an employer by whom a recipient student is employed, upon being notified in writing by the Perbadanan or Inland Revenue Board from time to time— (a) to deduct from the salary of the recipient student such sum of moneys as notified by the Perbadanan or Inland Revenue Board, being the monthly amount of repayment required of the recipient student towards the discharge of his educational loan; and (b) to remit the amount so deducted to the Perbadanan or Inland Revenue Board on a monthly basis. (2) An employer who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding twenty thousand ringgit o r to imprisonment for a term not exceeding one year or to both. Certificate of Perbadanan to be conclusive 30. A certificate issued by the Perbadanan under subparagraph 27(1)(a)(ii) shall be conclusive proof of the amount of educational loa n outstanding and due to the Perbadanan from a 

 Perbadanan Tabung Pendidikan Tinggi Nasional 27 recipient student, for the purpose of the recovery and collection of the repayments of that educational loan by the Inland Revenue Board or a collection agent appointed under section 24. Payment of commission to collection agents 31. The Perbadanan, with the approval of the Minister of Finance, may pay to the Inland Revenue Board or a collection agent appointed under section 24 such rate of commission for services rendered in collecting the repayments of educational loans. PART VI CHAIRMAN, OFFICERS, SERVANTS Chairman 32. (1) The Chairman of the Board shall preside at all meetings of the Board. (2) In the absence of the Chairman for any reason, the Minister shall appoint a member of the Board, except the Chief Executive, to carry out the duties of the Chairman. Chief Executive 33. (1) The Board, with the approval of the Minister may appoint a person, designated as the “Chief Executive”, to be the principal executive officer of the Perbadanan, and sh all vest in him such powers and impose upon him such duties as may be determined by the Board. (2) The Chief Executive shall be responsible for the overall administration and management of the functions and the day to day affairs of the Perbadanan. 

28 Laws of Malaysia ACT 566 (3) The Chief Executive shall have general control of the officers and servants of the Perbadanan. (4) The Chief Executive shall perform such further duties as the Perbadanan or the Minister may direct from time to time. (5) In discharging his duties, the Chief Executive shall act under the general authority and directions of the Board. (6) If the Chief Executive is temporarily absent from Malaysia or is incapacitated through illness or for any other reason is unable to perform his duties, the Board may direct any other officer to carry out the duties of the Chief Executive during such te mporary absence or incapacity. Appointment of officers and servants of the Perbadanan 34. (1) The Perbadanan, for the purpose of carrying out its functions under this Act, may appoint or employ such number of officers and servants to assist the Perbadanan in carrying out such functions. (2) For the purpose of subsection (1) the Perbadanan, with the approval of the Minister, may determine the terms and conditions of service of such officers and servants. Appointment of agents, consultants, etc. 35. The Perbadanan may appoint or employ such agents, consultants including advocates and solicitors, or other persons to transact any business or to do any act required to b e transacted or done in the execution of its functions or for the better carrying into effect the purposes of this Act. 36. (Deleted by Act A1296). 37. (Deleted by Act A1296). 

 Perbadanan Tabung Pendidikan Tinggi Nasional 29 38. (Deleted by Act A1296). 39. (Deleted by Act A1296). 40. (Deleted by Act A1296). 41. (Deleted by Act A1296). 42. (Deleted by Act A1296). 43. (Deleted by Act A1296). 44. (Deleted by Act A1296). Perbadanan may adopt regulations, etc. 45. In making regulations under this Part, the Perbadanan, with the approval of the Minister, may adopt with such modifications any regulations, rules, policies, circulars and directives enacted or issued by the Federal Government. Protection from personal liability 46. No member of the Board or any committee, or officer , servant or agent of the Perbadanan shall incur any personal liability for any loss or damage caused by any act or omission in carrying out his powers or duties under this Act unless such loss or damage is occasioned by an intentionally wrongful act or omission on his part. 

30 Laws of Malaysia ACT 566 Public Authorities Protection Act 1948 47. The Public Authorities Protection Act 1948 [ Act 198] shall apply to any action, suit, prosecution or proceedings against the Perbadanan, or against any member of the Board or any commi ttee, or any officer, servant or agent of the Perbadanan in respect of any act, neglect or default done or committed by him in such capacity. Public servants 48. The Chairman, all members of the Board and any committee, the officers, servants and agents of the Perbadanan, while discharging their duties as the Chairman or such members, officers, servants or agents shall be deemed to be public servants within the meaning of the Penal Code [Act 574]. PART VII GENERAL Power to make regulations 49. (1) The Perbadanan, with the approval of the Minister, may make such regulations as may be expedient or necessary for the purpose of carrying out the provisions of this Act. (2) Without prejudice to the generality of subsection (1), regulations may be made for prescribing— (a) the forms to be used and the information to be furnished in any application or for other purposes under this Act; (b) the procedure to be followed and the fee deemed proper to be prescribed in respect of any application under this Act; 

 Perbadanan Tabung Pendidikan Tinggi Nasional 31 (c) the fo rm in which a register or other records shall be kept or maintained under this Act and the entries to be made therein; (d) other fees or charges to be imposed in respect of anything done under this Act; (e) the manner of appointment, and the terms andconditions of service of the officers and servants of the Perbadanan; (f) the payment of gratuities and other benefits to the officers and servants of the Perbadanan; (g) the terms and conditions and the procedure for the grant of loans or advances to a ny officer or servant of the Perbadanan including, where the loan is for the purpose of purchasing or erecting a house or discharging any encumbrance on a house, the condition that the house including the land on which it stands shall be charged or assigned to the Perbadanan as security for the loan; (h) the payment of allowances and other benefits to members of the Board and the committees; (ha) the responsibilities, conditions, and the procedure for the grant of educational loans to any recipient student; (i) any matter required to be prescribed under this Act; and (j) any other matter which the Perbadanan deems expedient or necessary for the purposes of this Act. Penalties for subsidiary legislation 49A. The regulations made under section 49 may provide for any act or omission in contravention of the regulations to be an offence and may provide for penalties of a fine not exceeding five thousand ringgit or a term of imprisonment not exceeding one month or to both. 

32 Laws of Malaysia ACT 566 Reserve Fund 50. (1) The Perbada nan shall establish and manage a Reserve Fund within the Fund. (2) The Perbadanan may transfer assets into or from the Reserve Fund from time to time. (3) The transfers into the Reserve Fund shall be determined by the Perbadanan and the transfers out of the Reserve Fund shall be determined by the Minister. (4) Notwithstanding subsection (3), the amount of moneys to be transferred into the Reserve Fund in relation to the deposits under section 11 shall be such percentage of the deposits received as may be determined by the Minister. Expenditure and preparation of estimates 51. (1) The expenditure of the Perbadanan up to such amount as may be authorized by the Minister for any one year shall be defrayed out of the Fund. (2) Before the beginning of Se ptember of each year, the Perbadanan shall submit to the Minister an estimate of its expenditure for the following year in such form and containing such particulars as the Minister may direct. (3) The Minister shall notify the Perbadanan before the beginning of the following year of the amount authorized for expenditure generally or of amounts authorized for each description of expenditure based on the estimates prepared under subsection (2). (4) The Perbadanan may submit to the Minister at any time a supplementary estimate of its expenditure for any one year and the Minister may allow the whole or any part of the additional expenditure included in the supplementary estimate. 

 Perbadanan Tabung Pendidikan Tinggi Nasional 33 Accounts and reports 52. (1) The Perbadanan shall cause to be kept proper ac counts of the Fund and proper reports of its activities and, as soon as practicable after the end of each financial year, shall cause to be prepared for the financial year— (a) a statement of accounts of the Perbadanan which shall include a balance sheet and an account of its income and expenditure; and (b) a statement of its activities. (2) The Perbadanan shall as soon as possible send a copy of the statement of accounts in paragraph (1) (a) and the statement of its activities in paragraph (1) (b), certified by auditors and a copy of the auditor’s report to the Minister who shall cause them to be laid before both Houses of Parliament. Statutory Bodies (Accounts and Annual Reports) Act 1980 to apply 53. The Statutory Bodies (Accounts and Annual Reports) Act 198 0 [Act 240] shall apply to the Perbadanan. Obligation of secrecy 54. (1) Except for any of the purposes of this Act or for the purposes of any civil or criminal proceedings under any written law, no member of the Board, member of a committee, officer or servant of the Perbadanan shall disclose any information which has been obtained by him in the course of his duties and which is not published in pursuance of this Act. (2) A person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding ten thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding six months or to both. 

34 Laws of Malaysia ACT 566 Penalty in the case of a continuing offence 55. A person who is guilty of an offence under this Act shall, in the case of a continuing offence, be liable, in addition to any other penalty to which he is liable under this Act in respect of the offence, to a daily fine not exceeding five hundred ringgit for each day the offence continues after conviction. Offences by bodies corporate 56. Where a body corporate is guilty of an offence under this Act— (a) any person who, at the time of the commission of the offence, is a director, manager, secretary, or other similar officer of the body corporate, may be charged severally or jointly in the same proceedings with the body corporate; and (b) every such director, manager, secretary or other similar officer of the body corporate who was, in any way, by act or omission directly or indirectly, concerned in, or party to, the commission of the offence shall be deemed to be guilty of that offence, unless he proves that the offence was committed without his knowledge or connivance or that he took all reasonable precautions or that he had exercised due diligence to prevent the commissio n of the offence. Things done in anticipation of the enactment of the Act 57. All things done by any person or authority on behalf of the Perbadanan in the preparation of and towards the proper implementation of any of the provisions of this Act, and an y expenditure incurred in relation thereto, in anticipation of the enactment of this Act shall be deemed to have been authorized by this Act, and all rights acquired or obligations incurred on behalf of the Perbadanan from anything so done shall upon the c oming into force 

 Perbadanan Tabung Pendidikan Tinggi Nasional 35 of this Act be deemed to be the rights and obligations of the Perbadanan. Conduct of civil proceedings 58. Notwithstanding the provisions of any written law, in any civil proceedings by or against the Perbadanan− (a) any person holding the appointment of a Federal Counsel and authorized by the Attorney General for the purpose; or (b) any officer of the Perbadanan authorized in that behalf by the Chairman, may, on behalf of the Perbadanan, i nstitute, appear i n and conduct such proceedings and may make and do all appearances, acts and applications in respect of such proceedings. Power to compound 59. (1) The Chief Executive may, with the consent in writing of the Public Prosecutor, compound any offence commi tted by any person under this Act or any regulations made under this Act by making a written offer to the person who committed the offence to compound the offence upon payment to the Chief Executive of an amount of money not exceeding fifty per cent of the amount of the maximum fine for that offence within the time specified in the offer. (2) An offer under subsection (1) may be made at any time after the offence has been committed, but before any prosecution for it has been instituted and if the amount s pecified in the offer is not paid within the time specified in the offer or within such extended period as the Chief Executive may grant, prosecution for the offence may be instituted at any time after that against the person to whom the offer was made. (3) If an offence has been compounded under subsection (1), no prosecution shall be instituted in respect of the offence against the 

36 Laws of Malaysia ACT 566 person to whom the offer to compound was made and any thing seized in connection with the offence may be released or forfei ted to the Chief Executive, as may be determined by the Chief Executive, subject to such terms and conditions as he thinks fit. (4) All sums of money received by the Chief Executive under this section shall be paid into and form part of the Federal Consolidated Fund. SCHEDULE [Subsection 8(4)] Appointment, revocation and resignation 1. (1) Subject to such conditions as may be specified in his instrument of appointment, the Chairman and a member of the Board appointed by the Minister shall hold off ice for a term not exceeding three years and shall, on ceasing to be a member, be eligible for reappointment. (2) The Minister may revoke the appointment of the Chairman and that of any member of the Board appointed by him at any time without assigning a ny reason therefor. (3) The Chairman may resign his office at any time by letter addressed to the Minister. (4) A member appointed by the Minister may resign his office at any time by letter addressed to the Minister. Vacation of office 2. (1) The office of the Chairman or a member of the Board appointed by the Minister shall be vacated— (a) if he dies; (b) if there has been proved against him, or he has been convicted on, a charge in respect of— 

 Perbadanan Tabung Pendidikan Tinggi Nasional 37 (i) an offence involving fraud, dishonesty or moral turpitude; (ii) an offence under any law relating to corruption; or (iii) any other offence punishable with imprisonment (in itself only or in addition to or in lieu of a fine) for more than two years; (c) if his conduct, whether in connection with his duties as the Chairman or a member of the Board or otherwise, has been such as to bring discredit on the Board; (d) if he becomes a bankrupt; (e) if he is of unsound mind or is otherwise incapable of discharging his duties; (f) in the case of the Chairman, if he absents himself from a meeting of the Board without leave of the Minister; (g) in the case of a member, if he absents himself from three consecutive meetings of the Board without leave of the Chairman; and (h) in the case of the Chairman or a member of the Board— (i) if his resignation is accepted by the Minister; or (ii) if his appointment is revoked by the Minister. Remuneration or allowance 3. There may be paid to the members of the Board such remuneration or allowances out of the Fund as the Minister may determine. Meetings 4. (1) The Board shall meet for the despatch of its business at least once in every two months at such time and place as the Chairman may determine from time to time. (2) At any meeting of the Board, five members shall form a quorum. (3) If on any question to be determined by the Board there is an equality of votes, the Chairman shall have a casting vote in addition to his deliberative vote. 

38 Laws of Malaysia ACT 566 Board may invite others to meetings 5. (1) The Board may invite any person to attend any meeting or deliberation of the Board for the purpose of advising it on any matter under discussion, but any person so attending shall have no right to vote at the meeting or deliberation. (2) A person invited under subparagraph (1) shall be paid such allowances as may be determined by the Board. Minutes 6. (1) The Board shall cause minutes of all the meetings of the Board to be maintained and kept in a proper form. (2) Any minutes made of a meeting of the Board shall, if duly signed, be admissible in evidence in all legal proceedings without further proof. (3) Every meeting of the Board in respect of the proceedings of which minutes have been so made shall be deemed to have been duly convened and held and all members thereat to have been duly qualified to act. Disclosure of interest 7. (1) A member of the Board having, directly or indirectly, by himself or his partner— (a) an interest in a company or undertaking with which the Perbadanan proposes to make a contract; or (b) an interest in a contract or matter under discussion by the Board, shall disclose to the Board the fact of his interest and its nature. (2) A disclosure under subparagraph (1) shall be recorded in the minutes of the Board and such member shall take no part in the deliberation or decision of the Board relating to the contract or matter. Validity of acts and proceedings 8. No act done or proceedings taken under this Act shall be questioned on the ground of— 

 Perbadanan Tabung Pendidikan Tinggi Nasional 39 (a) any vacancy in the membership of, or any defect in the constitution of, the Board; (b) a con travention by any member of the Board of the provisions of paragraph 7; or c) any omission, defect or irregularity not affecting the merits of the case. Procedure 9. Subject to this Act, the Board shall determine its own procedure at its discretion. 

40 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 566 PERBADANAN TABUNG PENDIDIKAN TINGGI NASIONAL ACT 1997 LIST OF AMENDMENTS Amending law Short title In force from Act A1079 Act A1296 Perbadanan Tabung Pendidikan Tinggi Nasional (Amendment) Act 2000 Perbadanan Tabung Pendidikan Tinggi Nasional (Amendment) Act 2007 162000 202007 

41 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 566 PERBADANAN TABUNG PENDIDIKAN TINGGI NASIONAL ACT 1997 LIST OF SECTIONS AMENDED Section Amending authority In force from 2 7 11 11A 15A Act A1079 Act A1296 Act A1296 Act A1296 Act A1296 Act A1079 162000 202007 202007 202007 202007 162000 22A 23A 29 32 36 37 38 39 40 41 42 43 Act A1296 Act A1296 Act A1296 Act A1296 Act A1296 Act A1296 Act A1296 Act A1296 Act A1296 Act A1296 Act A1296 Act A1296 202007 202007 202007 202007 202007 202007 202007 202007 202007 202007 202007 202007 

42 Laws of Malaysia ACT 566 44 49 49A 58 59 Act A1296 Act A1296 Act A1296 Act A1296 Act A1296 202007 202007 202007 202007 202007