Finance (No. 2) LAWS OF MALAYSIA RepRint Act 591 FIn Ance ( nO . 2) Act 1998 Incorporating all amendments up to 1 January 2006 published by the CommissioneR of law Revision, malaysia undeR the authoRity of the Revision of laws aCt 968 in CollaboRation with peRCetakan nasional malaysia bhd 2006

 FIn Ance ( nO . 2) Act 1998 d ate of Royal a ssent … ... ... ...  4 d ecember 998 d ate of publication in the Gazette … 3 d ecember 998 Previous r e Print First Reprint ... ... ... ... ... 2002

3 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 591 FIn Ance ( n O. 2) A ct 1998 a RRan Gement of se Ctions Chapter i pRelimina Ry s ection  . s hort title  . a mendments of a cts Chapter ii amendments to the in Come ta X a Ct 967 3. Commencement of amendments to the income t ax a ct 967 4. a mendment of section 3 5. a mendment of section 34 6. a mendment of section 44 7. a mendment of section 54 a 8. a mendment of section 60 9. s ubstitution of section 30  0. n ew s chedule 4 C  . a mendment of s chedule 6  . a mendment of s chedule 7  3. a mendment of s chedule 7 a Chapter iii amendment to the R eal pRope Rty G ains ta X a Ct 976  4. Commencement of amendment to the Real property Gains t ax a ct 976

4 Laws of Malaysia Act 591 s ection  5. a mendment of section 53 Chapter iv amendments to the labuan offsho Re business a Ctivity ta X a Ct 990  6. Commencement of amendments to the l abuan o ffshore b usiness a ctivity t ax a ct 990  7. a mendment of section   8. d eletion of section 0a

5Finance (No. 2) LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 591 FIn Ance ( n O. 2) A ct 1998 a n a ct to amend the income t ax a ct 967, the Real property Gains t ax a ct 976 and the l abuan o ffshore b usiness a ctivity t ax a ct 990. [ ] en Acte D by the parliament of m alaysia as follows: Chapter i pRelimina Ry Short title 1. t his a ct may be cited as the f inance ( n o. ) a ct 998. Amendments of Acts 2. t he income t ax a ct 967 [ Act 53 ], the Real property Gains t ax a ct 976 [Act 169 ] and the l abuan o ffshore b usiness a ctivity t ax a ct 990 [ Act 445 ] are amended in the manner specified in Chapters ii , iii and iv respectively. Chapter ii amendments to the in Come ta X a Ct 967 c ommencement of amendments to the Income t ax Act 1967 3. () e xcept for sections 4, 6, 8, 0 and 3, this Chapter shall have effect for the year of assessment 999 and subsequent years of assessment.

6 Laws of Malaysia Act 591 () s ection 4 shall be deemed to have come into force on 4 o ctober 998. (3) s ections 6 and 0 shall have effect for the year of assessment 000 and subsequent years of assessment. (3a ) s ection 8 shall be deemed to have effect for the year of assesment 995 and subsequent years of assesment. (4) s ection 3 shall be deemed to have effect for the year of assessment 998 and subsequent years of assessment. Amendment of section 13 4. t he income t ax a ct 967, which in this Chapter is referred to as the “principal a ct”, is amended by substituting for subparagraph 3()(b)(ii) the following subparagraph: “(ii) a benefit or amenity consisting of— (A) leave passages for travel within m alaysia not exceeding three times in any calendar year; or (B) one leave passage for travel between m alaysia and any place outside m alaysia in any calendar year, limited to a maximum of three thousand ringgit: p rovided that the benefit or amenity enjoyed under this subparagraph is confined only to the employee and members of his immediate family;”. Amendment of section 34 5. p aragraph 34(6)(h) of the principal a ct is amended by substituting for the words “relevant authority” the word “ m inister”. Amendment of section 44 6. s ection 44 of the principal a ct is amended— (a) in paragraph ( )(b) by substituting for the words “or 4 b ” the words, “4 b or 4 C”; (b) in subsection (6) by substituting for the words “or 4 b ,” the words, “4 b or 4 C”; and

7Finance (No. 2) (c) in subsection ( 6a ) by substituting for the words “or 4 b ,” the words, “4 b or 4 C”. Amendment of section 54 A 7. s ection 54 a of the principal a ct is amended— (a) by substituting for subsection ( ) the following subsection: “() s ubject to the following subsections, where a person who is resident for the basis year for a year of assessment carries on the business of— (a) transporting passengers or cargo by sea on a m alaysian ship; or (b) letting out on charter a m alaysian ship owned by him on a voyage or time charter basis, the statutory income for that year of assessment from that business shall be exempt from tax.”; (b) in subsection (3) by substituting for the words “the business of transporting passengers or cargo on board a m alaysian ship” the words “a business in respect of which his income is exempt under subsection ( )”; and (c) in subsection (6)— (i) by substituting for the semicolon appearing at the end of the definition of “person” a full stop; and (ii) by deleting the definition of “transporting passengers or cargo”. Amendment of section 60 8. s ection 60 of the principal a ct is amended— (a) by substituting for subparagraph (3 a )(a)(iii) the following subparagraph: “(iii) the amount of the actuarial surplus from the life fund that is transferred to the shareholde rs’ fund; and”; and

8 Laws of Malaysia Act 591 (b) by substituting for subpar agraph (4 a )(a)(iii) the following subparagraph: “(iii) the amount of the actuarial surplus from the life fund that is transferred to the shareholders’ fund; and”. Substitution of section 130 9. t he principal a ct is amended by substituting for section 30 the following section: “n on-resident citizen relief 130. () t here shall be allowed a relief to an individual who is a citizen but not resident for the basis year for a year of assessment by reason of his employment which is exercised outside m alaysia in the public services or the service of a statutory authority. () t he relief shall be such relief as will reduce the amount of tax chargeable on him in respect of his chargeable income for that year of assessment to an amount which bears the same proportion to the amount of tax which would be so chargeable if he were resident for that basis year and the tax were charged on his aggregate income as the amount of his total income bears to the amount of his aggregate income. (3) a n individual claiming relief under this section shall make his claim in the prescribed form and shall furnish such further particulars as the d irector General may require. (4) i n this section, “aggregate income”, in relation to an individual claiming relief under this section for a year of assessment, means his total income, accruing in or derived from m alaysia or elsewhere, computed in accordance with the provisions of this a ct: p rovided that where subsection 45( ) applies in arriving at the aggregate income the reference to total income shall include the total income of the wife of the individual.”.

9Finance (No. 2) n ew Schedule 4c 10. t he principal a ct is amended by inserting after s chedule 4 b the following s chedule: “SChedule 4C [s ection 44] Deduction for Approved Food Production Projects 1. s ubject to this s chedule, a company resident in m alaysia in the basis year for a year of assessment (referred to in this s chedule as a “surrendering company”) may surrender its adjusted loss, in full or in part, in the basis period for that year of assessment in respect of an approved food production project to one or more related companies resident in m alaysia in the basis year for that year of assessment (referred to in this s chedule as a “claimant company”). 2. i n relation to an approved food production project— (a) the application for approval for the project shall be made not later than 3  d ecember 999; (b) the project shall commence within one year from the date of approval; and (c) at least eighty per cent of the sales, if any, of the produce are made within m alaysia. 3. f or the purposes of this s chedule, a surrendering company is related to a claimant company if at the end of the basis period for a year of assessment at least— (a) seventy per cent of the issued share capital of the surrendering company are directly owned by the claimant company; (b) seventy per cent of the issued share capital of the claimant company are directly owned by the surrendering company; or (c) seventy per cent each of the issued share capital of the surrendering company and claimant company are directly owned by another company. 4. t he amount of adjusted loss surrendered shall be allowed as a deduction against the aggregate income of the claimant company pursuant to subsection 44(). 5. a ny amount of adjusted loss from the approved food production project that is not surrendered in any year of assessment shall not be available to any claimant company for any subsequent year of assessment. 6. w here the basis period of the surrendering company does not coincide with the basis period of the claimant company, the adjusted loss from the 

0 Laws of Malaysia Act 591 approved food production project shall be deemed to have accrued evenly over the basis period of the surrendering company and the amount of adjusted loss surrendered shall not exceed such amount that is apportioned to the period that coincides with the basis period of the claimant company. 7. w here a company has commenced an approved food production project, that company shall maintain a separate account for the income derived from that project: p rovided that where expenses have been incurred by that company which are not directly attributable to that project, the d irector General may allocate as expenses such amount as might reasonably and properly have been incurred in the normal course of its business in respect of such project. 8. a ny claim for a deduction under this s chedule shall be made in a written statement and shall be accompanied by a notice of consent given by the surrendering company containing such particulars as to show the amount of adjusted loss being surrendered. 9. n otwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this s chedule, where it appears to the d irector General that the deduction as mentioned in paragraph 4 ought not to have been so given, the d irector General may raise such assessment or additional assessment upon that claimant company as may be necessary in order to make good any loss of tax. 10. t he provisions of this s chedule shall not apply to a surrendering company which has been allowed a deduction under s chedule 4a or given an allowance under s chedule 7a , or granted any incentive under the promotion of investments a ct 986 [ Act 327 ] in respect of the same activity. 11. i n this s chedule, “approved food production project” means an agricultural project which is approved by the m inister of a griculture for the cultivation of maize for animal feed, cattle farming or any other activities as may be prescribed by the m inister of f inance.”. Amendment of Schedule 6 11. s chedule 6 to the principal a ct is amended— (a) in paragraphs a and b by substituting for the words “Raja p ermaisuri or t engku a mpuan” the words “t engku a mpuan, Raja permaisuri, t engku permaisuri, or permaisuri”; (b) in paragraph 30 by deleting the words “resident for the basis year for a year of assessment”;

Finance (No. 2) (c) by substituting for paragraph 34 the following paragraph: ‘34. () i ncome of an individual derived from exercising an employment on board a m alaysian ship. () f or the purposes of subparagraph ( ), “m alaysian ship” has the same meaning as in subsection 54 a (6).’; and (d) by inserting after paragraph 35 the following paragraph: “35A. i ncome of a unit trust in respect of interest derived from m alaysia and paid or credited by any bank or financial institution licensed under the b anking and f inancial institutions a ct 989 [ Act 372 ] or the islamic b anking a ct 983 [ Act 276 ].”. Amendment of Schedule 7 12. s chedule 7 to the principal a ct is amended by deleting paragraph 8. Amendment of Schedule 7 A 13. s chedule 7 a to the principal a ct is amended— (a) in subparagraph ( )(a) by inserting after the semicolon the word “and”; (b) in subparagraph ( )(b) by substituting for the words “; and” a comma; and (c) by deleting subparagraph ( )(c). Chapter iii amendment to the R eal pRope Rty G ains ta X a Ct 976 c ommencement of amendment to the Real Property Gains t ax Act 1976 14. t his Chapter shall have effect upon the coming into operation of this a ct.

 Laws of Malaysia Act 591 Amendment of section 53 15. t he Real property Gains t ax a ct 976 is amended by substituting for paragraph 53( )(a) the following paragraph: “(a) in the case of a company, partnership or body of persons having a registered office in m alaysia— (i) to that registered office; (ii) to its last known address; or (iii) to any person authorized by it to accept service of process;”. Chapter iv amendments to the labuan offsho Re business a Ctivity ta X a Ct 990 c ommencement of amendments to the Labuan Offshore Business Activity t ax Act 1990 16. t his Chapter shall have effect for the year of assessment 999 and subsequent years of assessment. Amendment of section 2 17. t he l abuan o ffshore b usiness a ctivity t ax a ct 990, which in this Chapter is referred to as the “principal a ct”, is amended in subsection ()— (a) by substituting for the proviso to the definition of “offshore business activity” the following proviso: “provided that— (a) in relation to an offshore company carrying on an offshore banking business, such activity may be carried on with residents and, where permitted under subsection 0() of the o ffshore b anking a ct 990 [ Act 443 ], transactions may be carried on in m alaysian currency; (b) in relation to an offshore company carrying on an offshore insurance business, such activity may be 

3Finance (No. 2) carried on with residents and, where permitted under subsection () of the o ffshore insurance a ct 990 [ Act 444 ], transactions may be carried on in m alaysian currency; (c) in relation to the holding of investments by an offshore company in a domestic company, such holding may be in m alaysian currency; (d) in relation to an offshore company carrying on a money-broking business, such activity may be carried on with residents where permitted under paragraph 7(3) (a) of the o ffshore Companies a ct 990 [ Act 441 ] ; (e) in relation to an offshore company carrying on an offshore leasing business, such activity may be carried on with residents where permitted under paragraph 7(3) (a) of the o ffshore Companies a ct 990; or (f) the m inister may approve the carrying on of such activity with residents or such transactions in m alaysian currency;”; and (b) by inserting after the definition of “resident” the following definition: ‘ “shipping operations” means the transportation of passengers or cargo by sea or the letting out on charter of ships on a voyage or time charter basis;’. Deletion of section 10 A 18. t he principal a ct is amended by deleting section 0a .

4 Laws of Malaysia Act 591 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 591 FIn Ance ( n O. 2) A ct 1998 list of amendments a mending law s hort title in force from a ct 63  f inance a ct 003 0-0-999 

5Finance (No. 2) LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 591 FIn Ance ( n O. 2) A ct 1998 list of se Ctions amended s ection a mending authorithy in force from 3 a ct 63  0-0-999