LAWS OF MALAYSIA REPRINT Act 137 SPECIFIC RELIEF ACT 1950 Incorporating all amendments up to 1 January 2006 PUBLISHED BY THE COMMISSIONER OF LAW REVISION, MALAYSIA UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF THE REVISION OF LAWS ACT 1968 IN COLLABORATION WITH PERCETAKAN NASIONAL MALAYSIA BHD 2006

2 Laws of Malaysia ACT 137 First enacted ... ... … .. .…… 1950 (Ordinance No. 29 of 1950) Revised ... ... ... … .. .…… 1974 (Act 137 w.e.f. 1 July 1974) PREVIOUS R EPRINTS First Reprint … … … … … 1997 Second Reprint … … … … … 2000 SPECIFIC RELIEF ACT 1950

Specific Relief 3 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 137 SPECIFIC RELIEF ACT 1950 ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS PART I PRELIMINARY Section 1. Short title 2. Interpretation 3. Savings 4. Specific relief how given 5. Preventive relief 6. Relief not granted to enforce penal law P ART II SPECIFIC RELIEF CHAPTER I RECOVERING POSSESSION OF PROPERTY Possession of Immovable Property 7. Recovery of specific immovable property 8. Suit by person dispossessed of immovable property Possession of Movable Property 9. Recovery of specific movable property 10. Liability of person in possession, not as owner, to deliver to person entitled to immediate possession

4 Laws of Malaysia ACT 137 CHAPTER II SPECIFIC PERFORMANCE OF CONTRACTS Contracts which may be Specifically Enforced Section 11. Cases in which specific performance enforceable 12. Contracts of which the subject has partially ceased to exist 13. Specific performance of part of contract where part unperformed is small 14. Specific performance of part of contract where part unperformed is large 15. Specific performance of independent part of contract 16. Bar in other cases of specific performance of part of contract 17. Purchaser’s rights against vendor with imperfect title 18. Power to award compensation in certain cases 19. Liquidation of damages not a bar to specific performance Contracts which cannot be Specifically Enforced 20. Contracts not specifically enforceable Discretion of the Court 21. Discretion as to decreeing specific performance For whom Contracts may be Specifically Enforced 22. Who may obtain specific performance For whom Contracts cannot be Specifically Enforced 23. Personal bars to the relief 24. Contracts to sell property by one who has no title, or who is a voluntary settlor For whom Contracts cannot be Specifically Enforced, except with a Variation 25. Non-enforcement except with variation Against whom Contracts may be Specifically Enforced 26. Relief against parties and persons claiming under them by subsequent title

Specific Relief 5 Against whom Contracts cannot be Specifically Enforced Section 27. What parties cannot be compelled to perform The effect of Dismissing a suit for Specific Performance 28. Bar of suit for breach after dismissal Awards and Directions to Execute Settlements 29. Application of preceding sections to awards and testamentary directions to execute settlements CHAPTER III RECTIFICATION OF INSTRUMENTS 30. When instrument may be rectified 31. Presumption as to intent of parties 32. Principles of rectification 33. Specific enforcement of rectified contract CHAPTER IV RESCISSION OF CONTRACTS 34. When rescission may be adjudged 35. Rescission for mistake 36. Alternative prayer for rescission in suit for specific performance 37. Court may require party rescinding to do equity CHAPTER V CANCELLATION OF INSTRUMENTS 38. When cancellation may be ordered 39. What instruments may be partially cancelled 40. Power to require party for whom instrument is cancelled to make compensation CHAPTER VI DECLARATORY DECREES 41. Discretion of court as to declaration of status or right 42. Effect of declaration

6 Laws of Malaysia ACT 137 CHAPTER VII APPOINTMENT OF RECEIVERS Section 43. Appointment of Receivers discretionary CHAPTER VIII ENFORCEMENT OF PUBLIC DUTIES 44. Power to order public servants and others to do certain specific acts 45. Application how made and procedure 46. Peremptory order 47. Execution of, and appeal from, orders 48. Costs 49. Bar to issue of mandamus P ART III PREVENTIVE RELIEF CHAPTER IX OF INJUNCTIONS GENERALLY 50. Preventive relief how granted 51. Temporary and perpetual injunctions CHAPTER X OF PERPETUAL INJUNCTIONS 52. Perpetual injunctions when granted 53. Mandatory injunctions 54. Injunction when refused 55. Injunction to perform negative agreement

Specific Relief 7 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 137 SPECIFIC RELIEF ACT 1950 An Act relating to specific relief. [Kuala Lumpur, Johore, Kedah, Kelantan, Negeri Sembilan, Pahang, Perak, Perlis, Selangor and Terengganu—4 July 1950; Malacca, Penang, Sabah and Sarawak— 1 July 1974, Act A238] PART I PRELIMINARY Short title 1. This Act may be cited as the Specific Relief Act 1950. Interpretation 2. (1) In this Act— “obligation” includes every duty enforceable by law; “settlement” means any instrument (other than a will or codicil) whereby the destination or devolution of successive interests in movable or immovable property is disposed of or is agreed to be disposed of; “trust” includes every species of express, implied, or constructive fiduciary ownership; “trustee” includes every person holding, expressly, by implication or constructively, a fiduciary character. ILLUSTRATIONS (a) Z bequeaths land to A, “not doubting that he will pay thereout an annuity of RM1,000 to B for his life”. A accepts the bequest. A is a trustee, within the meaning of this Act, for B, to the extent of the annuity.

8 Laws of Malaysia ACT 137 (b) A is the legal, medical, or spiritual adviser of B. By availing himself of his situation as such adviser, A gains some pecuniary advantage which might otherwise have accrued to B. A is a trustee for B, within the meaning of this Act, of the advantage. (c) A , being B’s banker, discloses, for his own purpose, the state of B’s account. A is a trustee, within the meaning of this Act, for B, of the benefit gained by him by means of the disclosure. (d) A , one of several partners, is employed to purchase goods for the firm. A, unknown to his co-partners, supplies them, at the market-price, with goods previously bought by himself when the price was lower, and thus makes a considerable profit. A is a trustee, for his co-partners, within the meaning of this Act, of the profit so made. (e) A , the manager of B’s indigo-factory, becomes agent for C, a vendor of indigo-seed, and receives, without B’s assent, commission on the seed purchased from C for the factory. A is a trustee, within the meaning of this Act, for B , of the commission so received. (2) All words occurring in this Act, which are defined in the Contracts Act 1950 [ Act 136], shall be deemed to have the meanings respectively assigned to them by that Act. Savings 3. Except where it is herein otherwise expressly provided, nothing in this Act shall be deemed— (a) to give any right to relief in respect of any agreement which is not a contract; (b) to deprive any person of any right to relief, other than specific performance, which he may have under any contract; or (c) to affect the operation of any law in force for the time being relating to the registration of documents. Specific relief how given 4. Specific relief is given— (a) by taking possession of certain property and delivering it to a claimant; (b) by ordering a party to do the very act which he is under an obligation to do; (c) by preventing a party from doing that which he is under an obligation not to do;

Specific Relief 9 (d) by determining and declaring the rights of parties otherwise than by an award of compensation; or (e) by appointing a receiver. Preventive relief 5. Specific relief granted under paragraph 4 (c) is called preventive relief. Relief not granted to enforce penal law 6. Specific relief cannot be granted for the mere purpose of enforcing a penal law. PART II SPECIFIC RELIEF CHAPTER I RECOVERING POSSESSION OF PROPERTY Possession of Immovable Property Recovery of specific immovable property 7. (1) Subject to subsection (2), a person entitled to the possession of specific immovable property may recover it in the manner prescribed by the law relating to civil procedure. (2) Where a specific immovable property has been let under a tenancy, and that tenancy is determined or has come to an end, but the occupier continues to remain in occupation of the property or part thereof, the person entitled to the possession of the property shall not enforce his right to recover it against the occupier otherwise than by proceedings in the court. (3) In subsection (2) “occupier” means any person lawfully in occupation of the property or part thereof at the termination of the tenancy.

10 Laws of Malaysia ACT 137 Suit by person dispossessed of immovable property 8. (1) If any person is dispossessed without his consent of immovable property otherwise than in due course of law, he or any person claiming through him may, by suit, recover possession thereof, notwithstanding any other title that may be set up in the suit. (2) Nothing in this section shall bar any person from suing to establish his title to any such property and to recover possession thereof. (3) No suit under this section shall be brought against any Government in Malaysia. (4) No appeal shall lie from any order or decree passed in any suit instituted under this section, nor shall any review of any such order or decree be allowed. Possession of Movable Property Recovery of specific movable property 9. A person entitled to the possession of specific movable property may recover the same in the manner prescribed by the law relating to civil procedure. Explanation 1 —A trustee may sue under this section for the possession of property to the beneficial interest in which the person for whom he is trustee is entitled. Explanation 2 —A special or temporary right to the present possession of property is sufficient to support a suit under this section. ILLUSTRATIONS (a) A pledges certain jewels to B to secure a loan. B disposes of them before he is entitled to do so. A, without having paid or tendered the amount of the loan, sues B for possession of the jewels. The suit should be dismissed, as A is not entitled to their possession, whatever right he may have to secure their safe custody. (b) A receives a letter addressed to him by B. B gets back the letter without A’s consent. A has such a property therein as entitled him to recover it from B.

Specific Relief 11 (c) A deposits books and papers for safe custody with B. B loses them and C finds them, but refuses to deliver them to B when demanded. B may recover them from C, subject to C’s right if any, under section 121 of the Contracts Act 1950. (d) A , a warehouse-keeper, is charged with the delivery of certain goods to Z, which B takes out of A’s possession. A may sue B for the goods. Liability of person in possession not as owner, to deliver to person entitled to immediate possession 10. Any person having the possession or control of a particular article of movable property, of which he is not the owner, may be compelled specifically to deliver it to the person entitled to its immediate possession, in any of the following cases: (a) when the thing claimed is held by the defendant as the agent or trustee of the claimant; ILLUSTRATION A, proceeding to Europe, leaves his furniture in charge of B as his agent during his absence. B, without A’s authority, pledges the furniture to C, and C, knowing that B had no right to pledge the furniture, advertises it for sale. C may be compelled to deliver the furniture to A, for he holds it as A’s trustee. (b) when compensation in money would not afford the claimant adequate relief for the loss of the thing claimed; ILLUSTRATION Z has got possession of an idol belonging to A’s family, and of which A is the proper custodian. Z may be compelled to deliver the idol to A . (c) when it would be extremely difficult to ascertain the actual damage caused by its loss; and ILLUSTRATION A is entitled to a picture by a dead painter and a pair of rare China vases. B has possession of them. The articles are of to special a character to bear an ascertainable market-value. B may be compelled to deliver them to A. (d) when the possession of the thing claimed has been wrongfully transferred from the claimant.

12 Laws of Malaysia ACT 137 CHAPTER II SPECIFIC PERFORMANCE OF CONTRACTS Contracts which may be Specifically Enforced Cases in which specific performance enforceable 11. (1) Except as otherwise provided in this Chapter, the specific performance of any contract may, in the discretion of the court, be enforced— (a) when the act agreed to be done is in the performance, wholly or partly, of a trust; ILLUSTRATION A holds certain stock in trust for B. A wrongfully disposes of the stock. The law creates an obligation on A to restore the same quantity of stock to B, and B may enforce specific performance of this obligation. (b) when there exists no standard for ascertaining the actual damage caused by the non-performance of the act agreed to be done; ILLUSTRATION A agrees to buy, and B agrees to sell, a picture by a dead painter and two rare China vases. A may compel B specifically to perform this contract, for there is no standard for ascertaining the actual damage which would be caused by its non-performance. (c) when the act agreed to be done is such that pecuniary compensation for its non-performance would not afford adequate relief; or ILLUSTRATIONS (a) A contracts with B to sell him a house for RM1,000. B is entitled to a decree directing A to convey the house to him, he paying the purchase- money. (b) In consideration of being released from certain obligations imposed on it by its Act of incorporation, a railway company contracts with Z to make an archway through their railway to connect lands of Z served by the railway, to construct a road between certain specified points, to pay a certain annual sum towards the maintenance of this road, and also to construct a siding and a wharf as specified in the contract. Z is entitled to have this contract

Specific Relief 13 specifically enforced, for his interest in its performance cannot be adequately compensated for by money; and the court may appoint a proper person to superintend the construction of the archway, road, siding, and wharf. (c) A contracts to sell, and B contracts to buy, a certain number of railway-shares of a particular description. A refuses to complete the sale. B may compel A specifically to perform this agreement, for the shares are limited in number and not always to be had in the market, and their possession carries with it the status of a shareholder, which cannot otherwise be procured. (d) A contracts with B to paint a picture for B, who agrees to pay therefor RM1,000. The picture is painted. B is entitled to have it delivered to him on payment or tender of the RM1,000. (d) when it is probable that pecuniary compensation cannot be got for the non-performance of the act agreed to be done. ILLUSTRATION A transfers without endorsement, but for valuable consideration, a promissory note to B. A becomes insolvent, and C is appointed his assignee. B may compel C to endorse the note, for C has succeeded to A’s liabilities and a decree for pecuniary compensation for not endorsing the note would be fruitless. (2) Unless and until the contrary is proved, the court shall presume that the breach of a contract to transfer immovable property cannot be adequately relieved by compensation in money, and that the breach of a contract to transfer movable property can be thus relieved. Contracts of which the subject has partially ceased to exist 12. Notwithstanding anything contained in section 57 of the Contracts Act 1950, a contract is not wholly impossible of performance because a portion of its subject matter, existing, at its date, has ceased to exist at the time of the performance. ILLUSTRATIONS (a) A contracts to sell a house to B for RM10,000. The day after the contract is made, the house is destroyed by a cyclone. B may be compelled to perform his part of the contract by paying the purchase-money. (b) In consideration of a sum of money payable by B, A contracts to grant an annuity to B’s life. The day after the contract has been made, B is thrown from his horse and killed. B’s representative may be compelled to pay the purchase-money.

14 Laws of Malaysia ACT 137 Specific performance of part of contract where part unperformed is small 13. Where a party to a contract is unable to perform the whole of his part of it, but the part which must be left unperformed bears only a small proportion to the whole in value, and admits of compensation in money, the court may, at the suit of either party, direct the specific performance of so much of the contract as can be performed, and award compensation in money for the deficiency. ILLUSTRATION In a contract for the sale and purchase of a house and lands for RM20,000, it is agreed that part of the furniture should be taken at a valuation. The court may direct specific performance of the contract notwithstanding the parties are unable to agree as to the valuation of the furniture, and may either have the furniture valued in the suit and include it in the decree for specific performance, or may confine its decree to the house. Specific performance of part of contract where part unperformed is large 14. Where a party to a contract is unable to perform the whole of his part of it, and the part which must be left unperformed forms a considerable portion of the whole, or does not admit of compensation in money, he is not entitled to obtain a decree for specific performance. But the court may, at the suit of the other party, direct the party in default to perform specifically so much of his part of the contract as he can perform, provided that the plaintiff relinquishes all claim to further performance, and all right to compensation either for the deficiency, or for the loss or damage sustained by him through the default of the defendant. Specific performance of independent part of contract 15. When a part of a contract which, taken by itself, can and ought to be specifically performed, stands on a separate and independent footing from another part of the same contract which cannot or ought not to be specifically performed, the court may direct specific performance of the former part.

Specific Relief 15 Bar in other cases of specific performance of part of contract 16. The court shall not direct the specific performance of a part of a contract except in cases coming under one or other of the three last preceding sections. Purchaser’s rights against vendor with imperfect title 17. Where a person contracts to sell or let certain property, having only an imperfect title thereto, the purchaser or lessee (except as otherwise provided by this Chapter) has the following rights: (a) if the vendor or lessor has subsequently to the sale or lease acquired any interest in the property, the purchaser or lessee may compel him to make good the contract out of that interest; (b) where the concurrence of other persons is necessary to validate the title, and they are bound to convey at the vendor’s or lessor’s request, the purchaser or lessee may compel him to procure the concurrence; and (c) where the vendor or lessor sues for specific performance of the contract, and the suit is dismissed on the ground of his imperfect title, the defendant has a right to a return of his deposit (if any) with interest thereon, to his costs of the suit, and to a lien for the deposit, interest, and costs on the interest of the vendor or lessor in the property agreed to be sold or let. Power to award compensation in certain cases 18. (1) Any person suing for the specific performance of a contract may also ask for compensation for its breach, either in addition to, or in substitution for, its performance. (2) If in any such suit the court decides that specific performance ought not to be granted, but that there is a contract between the parties which has been broken by the defendant and that the plaintiff is entitled to compensation for that breach, it shall award him compensation accordingly.

16 Laws of Malaysia ACT 137 ILLUSTRATION A contracts to sell a hundred gantangs of rice to B. B brings a suit to compel A to perform the contract or to pay compensation. The court is of opinion that A has made a valid contract and has broken it, without excuse, to the injury of B, but that specific performance is not the proper remedy. It shall award to B such compensation as it deems just. (3) If in any such suit the court decides that specific performance ought to be granted, but that it is not sufficient to satisfy the justice of the case, and that some compensation for breach of the contract should also be made to the plaintiff, it shall award him such compensation accordingly. ILLUSTRATION A contracts with B to sell him a house for RM1,000, the price to be paid and the possession given on the 1st January. A fails to perform his part of the contract, and B brings his suit for specific performance and compensation, which is decided in his favour. The decree may besides ordering specific performance, award to B compensation for any loss which he has sustained by A’s refusal. (4) Compensation awarded under this section may be assessed in such a manner as the court may direct. (5) The circumstance that the contract has become in capable of specific performance shall not preclude the court from exercising the jurisdiction conferred by this section. ILLUSTRATIONS (a) A , a purchaser, sues B, his vendor, for specific performance of a contract for the sale of a patent. Before the hearing of the suit the patent expires. The court may award A compensation for the non-performance of the contract, and may, if necessary, amend the plaint for that purpose. (b) A sues for the specific performance of a resolution passed by the directors of a public company, under which he was entitled to have a certain number of shares allotted to him, and for compensation for the non-performance of the resolution. All the shares had been allotted before the institution of the suit. The court may, under this section, award A compensation for the non-performance. Liquidation of damages not a bar to specific performance 19. A contract, otherwise proper to be specifically enforced, may be so enforced, though a sum be named in it as the amount to be paid in case of its breach, and the party in default is willing to pay the same.

Specific Relief 17 ILLUSTRATION A contracts to grant B an under-lease of property held by A under C, and that he will apply to C for a licence necessary to the validity of the under- lease, and that, if the licence is not procured, A will pay B RM10,000. A refuses to apply for the licence and offers to pay B the RM10,000. B is nevertheless entitled to have the contract specifically enforced if C consents to give the licence. Contracts which cannot be Specifically Enforced Contracts not specifically enforceable 20. (1) The following contracts cannot be specifically enforced: (a) a contract for the non-performance of which compensation in money is an adequate relief; ILLUSTRATION A contracts to sell, and B contracts to buy, RM10,000 in the four per cent loan of the City of Penang; A contracts to sell, and B contracts to buy, 40 pikuls of coffee at RM30 per pikul; In consideration of certain property having been transferred by A to B, B contracts to open a credit in A’s favour to the extent of RM10,000, and to honour A’s drafts to that amount: The above contracts cannot be specifically enforced, for in the first and second both A and B, and in the third A, would be reimbursed by compensation in money. (b) a contract which runs into such minute or numerous details, or which is so dependent on the personal qualifications or volition of the parties, or otherwise from its nature is such, that the court cannot enforce specific performance of its material terms; ILLUSTRATIONS (a) A contracts to render personal service to B; A contracts to employ B on personal service; A, an author, contracts with B, a publisher, to complete a literary work; B cannot enforce specific performance of these contracts. (b) A contracts to buy B’s business at the amount of a valuation to be made by two valuers, one to be named by A and the other by B. A and B each name a valuer, but before the valuation is made A instructs his valuer not to proceed;

18 Laws of Malaysia ACT 137 By a charter-party entered into in Telok Anson between A, the owner of a ship, and B, the charterer, it is agreed that the ship shall proceed to Rangoon, and there load a cargo of rice, and thence proceed to London, freight to be paid, one-third on arrival at Rangoon, and two-thirds on delivery of the cargo in London; A lets land to B, and B contracts to cultivate it in a particular manner for three years next after the date of the lease; A and B contract that, in consideration of annual advances to be made by A, B will, for three years next after the date of the contract, grow particular crops on the land in his possession and deliver them to A when cut and ready for delivery; A contracts with B that, in consideration of RM1,000 to be paid to him by B , he will paint a picture for B; A contracts with B to execute certain works which the court cannot superintend; A contracts to supply B with all the goods of a certain class which B may require; A contracts with B to take from B a lease of a certain house for a specified term, at a specified rent, “if the drawing-room is handsomely decorated,” even if it is held to have so much certainty that compensation can be recovered for its breach; A contracts to marry B: The above contracts cannot be specifically enforced. (c) a contract the terms of which the court cannot find with reasonable certainty; ILLUSTRATION A, the owner of a refreshment-room, contracts with B to give him accommodation there for the sale of his goods and to furnish him with the necessary appliances. A refuses to perform his contract. The case is one for compensation and not for specific performance, the amount and nature of the accommodation and appliances being undefined. (d) a contract which is in its nature revocable; ILLUSTRATION A and B contract to become partners in a certain business, the contract not specifying the duration of the proposed partnership. This contract cannot be specifically performed, for, if it were so performed, either A or B might at once dissolve the partnership.

Specific Relief 19 (e) a contract made by trustees either in excess of their powers or in breach of their trust; ILLUSTRATIONS (a) A is a trustee of land with power to lease it for seven years. He enters into a contract with B to grant a lease of the land for seven years, with a covenant to renew the lease at the expiry of the term. This contract cannot be specifically enforced. (b) The directors of a company have power to sell the concern with the sanction of a general meeting of the shareholders. They contract to sell it without any such sanction. This contract cannot be specifically enforced. (c) Two trustees, A and B, empowered to sell trust property worth RM10,000, contract to sell it to C for RM3,000. The contract is so disadvantageous as to be a breach of trust. C cannot enforce its specific performance. (d) The promoters of a company for working mines contract that the company, when formed, shall purchase certain mineral property. They take no proper precautions to ascertain the value of the property, and in fact agree to pay an extravagant price therefor. They also stipulate that the vendors shall give them a bonus out of the purchase-money. This contract cannot be specifically enforced. (f) a contract made by or on behalf of a corporation or public company created for special purposes, or by the promoters of the company, which is in excess of its powers; ILLUSTRATION A company existing for the sole purpose of making and working a railway contracts for the purchase of a piece of land for the purpose of erecting a cotton-mill thereon. This contract cannot be specifically enforced. (g) a contract the performance of which involves the performance of a continuous duty extending over a longer period than three years from its date; and ILLUSTRATION A contracts to let for twenty-one years to B the right to use such part of a certain railway made by A as was upon B’s land, and that B should have a right of running carriages over the whole line on certain terms, and might require A to supply the necessary engine-power, and that A should during the term keep the whole railway in good repair. Specific performance of this contract must be refused to B. (h) a contract of which a material part of the subject matter supposed by both parties to exist, has, before it has been made, ceased to exist.

20 Laws of Malaysia ACT 137 ILLUSTRATION A contracts to pay an annuity to B for the lives of C and D. It turns out that, at the date of the contract, C, though supposed by A and B to be alive, was dead. The contract cannot be specifically performed. (2) Save as provided by the law relating to civil procedure, no contract to refer a controversy to arbitration shall be specifically enforced. Discretion of the Court Discretion as to decreeing specific performance 21. (1) The jurisdiction to decree specific performance is discretionary, and the court is not bound to grant any such relief merely because it is lawful to do so; but the discretion of the court is not arbitrary but sound and reasonable, guided by judicial principles and capable of correction by a court of appeal. (2) The following are cases in which the court may properly exercise a discretion not to decree specific performance: (a) where the circumstances under which the contract is made are such as to give the plaintiff an unfair advantage over the defendant, though there may be no fraud or misrepresentation on the plaintiff’s part; and ILLUSTRATIONS (a) A contracts to sell to B t he interest of C in certain stock-in-trade. It is stipulated that the sale shall stand good, even though it should turn out that C’s interest is worth nothing. In fact, the value of C’s interest depends on the result of certain partnership-accounts, on which he is heavily in debt to his partners. This indebtedness is known to A, but not to B. Specific performance of the contract should be refused to A. (b) A contracts to sell, and B contracts to buy, certain land. To protect the land from floods, it is necessary for its owner to maintain an expensive embankment. B does not know of this circumstance, and A conceals it from him. Specific performance of the contract should be refused to A. (c) A ’s property is put up to auction. B requests C, A’s attorney, to bid for him. C does this inadvertently and in good faith. The persons present, seeing the vendor’s attorney bidding, think that he is a mere puffer and cease to compete. The lot is knocked down to B at a low price. Specific performance of the contract should be refused to B. (b) Where the performance of a contract would involve some hardship on the defendant which he did not foresee, whereas its non-performance would involve no such hardship on the plaintiff.

Specific Relief 21 ILLUSTRATIONS (a) A and B, trustees, join their beneficiary, C, in a contract to sell the trust-estate to D, and personally agree to exonerate the estate from heavy incumbrances to which it is subject. The purchase-money is not nearly enough to discharge those incumbrances, though, at the date of the contract, the vendors believed it to be sufficient. Specific performance of the contract should be refused to D. (b) A contracts with B to sell him certain lands, and to make a road to it from a certain railway-station. It is found afterwards that A cannot make the road without exposing himself to litigation. Specific performance of the part of the contract relating to the road should be refused to B, even though it may be held that he is entitled to specific performance of the rest with compensation for loss of the road. (c) A , a lessee of mines, contracts with B, his lessor, that at any time during the continuance of the lease B may give notice of his desire to take the machinery and plant used in and about the mines, and that he shall have the articles specified in his notice delivered to him at a valuation on the expiry of the lease. Such a contract might be most injurious to the lessee’s business, and specific performance of it should be refused to B. (d) A contracts with B to buy from B’s manufactory and not elsewhere all the goods of a certain class used by A in his trade. The court cannot compel B to supply the goods, but if he does not supply them A may be ruined, unless he is allowed to buy them elsewhere. Specific performance of the contract should be refused to B. (3) A case in which the court may properly exercise a discretion to decree specific performance is where the plaintiff has done substantial acts or suffered losses in consequence of a contract capable of specific performance. ILLUSTRATION A sells land to a railway company, who contract to execute certain works for his convenience. The company take the land and use it for their railway. Specific performance of the contract to execute the works should be decreed in favour of A. For whom Contracts may be Specifically Enforced Who may obtain specific performance 22. Except as otherwise provided by this Chapter, the specific performance of a contract may be obtained by— (a) any party thereto;

22 Laws of Malaysia ACT 137 (b) the representative in interest, or the principal, of any party thereto: Provided that, where the learning, skill, solvency, or any personal quality of the party is a material ingredient in the contract, or where the contract provides that his interest shall not be assigned, his representative in interest or his principal shall not be entitled to specific performance of the contract, unless where his part thereof has already been performed; (c) where the contract is a settlement on marriage, or a compromise of doubtful rights between members of the same family, any person beneficially entitled thereunder; (d) when a public company has entered into a contract and subsequently becomes amalgamated with another public company, the new company which arises out of the amalgamation; or (e) when the promoters of a public company have, before its incorporation, entered into contract for the purposes of the company, and the contract is warranted by the terms of the incorporation, the company. For whom Contracts cannot be Specifically Enforced Personal bars to the relief 23. Specific performance of a contract cannot be enforced in favour of a person— (a) who could not recover compensation for its breach; ILLUSTRATION A, in the character of agent for B, enters into an agreement with C to buy C’s house. A is in reality acting not as agent for B but on his own account. A cannot enforce specific performance of this contract. (b) who has become incapable of performing, or violates, any essential term of the contract that on his part remains to be performed; ILLUSTRATIONS (a) A contracts to sell B a house and to become tenant thereof for a term of fourteen years from the date of the sale at a specified yearly rent. A becomes insolvent. Neither he nor the official receiver of his estate can enforce specific performance of the contract.

Specific Relief 23 (b) A contracts to sell B a house and garden in which there are ornamental trees, a material element in the value of the property as a residence. A, without B ’s consent, fells the trees. A cannot enforce specific performance of the contract. (c) A , holding land under a contract with B for a lease, commits waste, or treats the land in an unhusbandlike manner. A cannot enforce specific performance of the contract. (d) A contracts to let, and B contracts to take, an unfinished house, B contracting to finish the house and the lease to contain covenants on the part of A to keep the house in repair. B finishes the house in a very defective manner: he cannot enforce the contract specifically, though A and B may sue each other for compensation for breach of it. (c) who has already chosen his remedy and obtained satisfaction for the alleged breach of contract; or ILLUSTRATION A contracts to let, and B contracts to take, a house for a specified term at a specified rent. B refuses to perform the contract. A thereupon sues for, and obtains, compensation for the breach. A cannot obtain specific performance of the contract. (d) who, previously to the contract, had notice that a settlement of the subject matter thereof (though not founded on any valuable consideration) had been made and was then in force. Contracts to sell property by one who has no title, or who is a voluntary settlor 24. A contract for the sale or letting of property, whether movable or immovable, cannot be specifically enforced in favour of a vendor or lessor— (a) who, knowing himself not to have any title to the property, has contracted to sell or let the same; (b) who, though he entered into the contract believing that he had a good title to the property; cannot, at the time fixed by the parties or by the court for the completion of the sale or letting, give the purchaser or lessee a title free from reasonable doubt; or (c) who, previous to entering into the contract, has made a settlement (though not founded on any valuable consideration) of the subject matter of the contract.

24 Laws of Malaysia ACT 137 ILLUSTRATIONS (a) A, without C’s authority, contracts to sell to B an estate which A knows to belong to C. A cannot enforce specific performance of this contract, even though C is willing to confirm it. (b) A, out of natural love and affection, makes a settlement of certain property on his brothers and their issue, and afterwards enters into a contract to sell the property to a stranger. A cannot enforce specific performance of this contract so as to override the settlement and thus prejudice the interests of the persons claiming under it. For whom Contracts cannot be Specifically Enforced, except with a Variation Non-enforcement except with variation 25. Where a plaintiff seeks specific performance of a contract in writing, to which the defendant sets up a variation, the plaintiff cannot obtain the performance sought, except with the variation so set up, in the following cases, namely: (a) where by fraud or mistake of fact the contract of which performance is sought is in terms different from that which the defendant supposed it to be when he entered into it; (b) where by fraud, mistake of fact, or surprise the defendant entered into a contract under a reasonable misapprehension as to its effect as between himself and the plaintiff; (c) where the defendant, knowing the terms of the contract and understanding its effect, has entered into it relying upon some misrepresentation by the plaintiff, or upon some stipulation on the plaintiff’s part, which adds to the contract, but which he refuses to fulfil; (d) where the object of the parties was to produce a certain legal result, which the contract as framed is not calculated to produce; and (e) where the parties have, subsequently to the execution of the contract, contracted to vary it. ILLUSTRATIONS (a) A, B , and C sign a writing by which they purport to contract each to enter into a bond to D for RM1,000. In a suit by D, to make A, B and C separately liable each to the extent of RM1,000, they prove that the word “each” was inserted by mistake; that the intention was that they should give a joint bond for RM1,000. D can obtain the performance sought only with the variation thus set up.

Specific Relief 25 (b) A contracts in writing to let to B a wharf, together with a strip of A’s land delineated in a map. Before signing the contract, B proposed orally that he should be at liberty to substitute for the strip mentioned in the contract another strip of A’s land of the same dimensions, and to this A expressly assented. B then signed the written contract, A cannot obtain specific performance of the written contract, except with the variation set up by B. (c) A contracts in writing to let a house to B, for a certain term, at the rent of RM100 per month, putting it first into tenantable repair. The house turns out to be not worth repairing, so, with B’s consent, A pulls it down and erects a new house in its place. B contracting orally to pay rent at RM120 per mensem. B then sues to enforce specific performance of the contract in writing. He cannot enforce it except with the variations made by the subsequent oral contract. Against whom Contracts may be Specifically Enforces Relief against parties and persons claiming under them by subsequent title 26. Except as otherwise provided by this Chapter, specific performance of a contract may be enforced against— (a) either party thereto; (b) any other person claiming under a party to the contract by a title arising subsequently to the contract, except a transferee for value who has paid his money in good faith and without notice of the original contract; ILLUSTRATIONS (a) A contracts to convey certain land to B by a particular day. A dies intestate before that day without having conveyed the land. B may compel A’s heir or other representative in interest to perform the contract specifically. (b) A contracts, in consideration of RM1,000, to bequeath certain of his lands to B. Immediately after the contract A dies intestate, and C takes out administration to his estate. B may enforce specific performance of the contract against C. (c) A contracts to sell certain land to B. Before the completion of the contract, A becomes mentally disordered, and C is appointed his committee. B may specifically enforce the contract against C. (c) any person claiming under a title which, though prior to the contract and known to the plaintiff, might have been displaced by the defendant;

26 Laws of Malaysia ACT 137 (d) when a public company has entered into a contract and subsequently becomes amalgamated with another public company, the new company which arises out of the amalgamation; and (e) when the promoters of a public company have, before its incorporation, entered into a contract, the company: Provided that the company has ratified and adopted the contract and the contract is warranted by the terms of the incorporation. Against whom Contracts cannot be Specifically Enforced What parties cannot be compelled to perform 27. Specific performance of a contract cannot be enforced against a party thereto in any of the following cases: (a) if the consideration to be received by him is so grossly inadequate, with reference to the state of things existing at the date of the contract, as to be either by itself or coupled with other circumstances evidence of fraud or of undue advantage taken by the plaintiff; (b) if his assent was obtained by the misrepresentation (whether wilful or innocent), concealment, circumvention, or unfair practices, of any party to whom performance would become due under the contract, or by any promise of the party which has not been substantially fulfilled; or (c) if his assent was given under the influence of mistake of fact, misapprehension, or surprise: ILLUSTRATIONS (a) A , one of two executors, in the erroneous belief that he had the authority of his co-executor, enters into an agreement for the sale to B of his testator’s property. B cannot insist on the sale being completed. (b) A directs an auctioneer to sell certain land. A afterwards revokes the auctioneer’s authority as to 20 acres of this land, but the auctioneer inadvertently sells the whole to B, who has not notice of the revocation. B cannot enforce specific performance of the agreement. Provided that, when the contract provides for compensation in case of mistake, compensation may be made for a mistake within the scope of the provision, and the contract specifically enforced in other respects if proper to be so enforced.

Specific Relief 27 The effect of Dismissing a suit for Specific Performance Bar of suit for breach after dismissal 28. The dismissal of a suit for specific performance of a contract or part thereof shall bar the plaintiff’s right to sue for compensation for the breach of the contract or part, as the case may be. Awards and Directions to Execute Settlements Application of preceding sections to awards and testamentary directions to execute settlements 29. The provisions of this Chapter as to contracts shall, mutatis mutandis , apply to awards and to directions in a will or codicil to execute a particular settlement. CHAPTER III RECTIFICATION OF INSTRUMENTS When instrument may be rectified 30. When, through fraud or a mutual mistake of the parties, a contract or other instrument in writing does not truly express their intention, either party, or his representative in interest, may institute a suit to have the instrument rectified: and if the court find it clearly proved that there has been fraud or mistake in framing the instrument, and ascertain the real intention of the parties in executing the same, the court may in its discretion rectify the instrument so as to express that intention, so far as this can be done without prejudice to rights acquired by third persons in good faith and for value. ILLUSTRATIONS (a) A , intending to sell to B his house and one of three godowns adjacent to it, executes a conveyance prepared by B, in which, through B’s fraud, all three godowns are included. Of the two godowns which were fraudulently included, B gives one to C and lets the other to D for a rent, neither C nor D having any knowledge of the fraud. The conveyance may, as against B and C, be rectified so as to exclude from it the godown given to C, but it cannot be rectified so as to affect D’s lease.

28 Laws of Malaysia ACT 137 (b) By a marriage settlement, A, the father of B, the intended wife, covenants with C, the intended husband, to pay to C, his executors, administrators, and assigns, during A’s life, an annuity of RM5,000. C dies insolvent and the official receiver claims the annuity from A. The court, on finding it clearly proved that the parties always intended that this annuity should be paid as a provision for B and her children, may rectify the settlement and decree that the official receiver has no right to any part of the annuity. Presumption as to intent of parties 31. For the purpose of rectifying a contract in writing, the court must be satisfied that all the parties thereto intended to make an equitable and conscientious agreement. Principles of rectification 32. In rectifying a written instrument, the court may enquire what the instrument was intended to mean, and what were intended to be its legal consequences, and is not confined to the enquiry what the language of the instrument was intended to be. Specific enforcement of rectified contract 33. A contract in writing may be first rectified and then, if the plaintiff has so prayed in his plaint and the court thinks fit, specifically enforced. ILLUSTRATION A contracts in writing to pay his solicitor, B, a fixed sum in lieu of costs. The contract contains mistakes as to the name and rights of the client, which, if construed strictly, would exclude B from all rights under it. B is entitled, if the court thinks fit, to have it rectified, and to an order for payment of the sum, as if at the time of its execution it had expressed the intention of the parties. C HAPTER IV RESCISSION OF CONTRACTS When rescission may be adjudged 34. (1) Any person interested in a contract in writing may sue to have it rescinded, and such rescission may be adjudged by the court in any of the following cases, namely:

Specific Relief 29 (a) where the contract is voidable or terminable by the plaintiff; (b) where the contract is unlawful for causes not apparent on its face, and the defendant is more to blame than the plaintiff; and (c) where a decree for specific performance of a contract of sale, or of a contract to take a lease, has been made, and the purchaser or lessee makes default in payment of the purchase-money or other sums which the court has ordered him to pay. (2) When the purchaser or lessee is in possession of the subject matter, and the court finds that his possession is wrongful, the court may also order him to pay to the vendor or lessor the rents and profit, if any, received by him as possessor. In the same case, the court may, by order in the suit in which the decree has been made and not complied with, rescind the contract, either so far as regards the party in default, or altogether, as the justice of the case may require. Rescission for mistake 35. Rescission of a contract in writing cannot be adjudged for mere mistake, unless the party against whom it is adjudged can be restored to substantially the same position as if the contract had not been made. Alternative prayer for rescission in suit for specific performance 36. A plaintiff instituting a suit for the specific performance of a contract in writing may pray in the alternative that, if the contract cannot be specifically enforced, it may be rescinded and delivered up to be cancelled; and the court, if it refuses to enforce the contract specifically, may direct it to be rescinded and delivered up accordingly. Court may require party rescinding to do equity 37. On adjudging the rescission of a contract, the court may require the party to whom the relief is granted to make any compensation to the other which justice may require.

30 Laws of Malaysia ACT 137 CHAPTER V CANCELLATION OF INSTRUMENTS When cancellation may be ordered 38. (1) Any person against whom a written instrument is void or voidable, who has reasonable apprehension that such instrument, if left outstanding, may cause him serious injury, may sue to have it adjudged void or voidable, and the court may, in its discretion, so adjudge it and order it to be delivered up and cancelled. (2) If the instrument has been registered under any law in force for the time being relating to the registration of documents, the court shall also send a copy of its decree to the officer in whose office the instrument has been so registered; and that officer shall note on the copy of the instrument contained in his books the fact of its cancellation. ILLUSTRATIONS (a) A , the owner of a ship, by fraudulently representing her to be seaworthy, induces B, an underwriter, to insure her. B may obtain the cancellation of the policy. (b) A conveys land to B, who bequeaths it to C and dies. There upon D gets possession of the land and produces a forged instrument stating that the conveyance was made to B in trust for him. C may obtain the cancellation of the forged instrument. (c) A agrees to sell and deliver a ship to B, to be paid for by B’s acceptances of four bills of exchange, for sums amounting to RM30,000 to be drawn by A on B. The bills are drawn and accepted, but the ship is not delivered according to the agreement. A sues B on one of the bills. B may obtain the cancellation of all the bills. What instruments may be partially cancelled 39. Where an instrument is evidence of different rights or different obligations, the court may in a proper case cancel it in part and allow it to stand for the residue. ILLUSTRATIONS A draws a bill on B, who endorses it to C, by whom it appears to be endorsed to D, who endorses it to E. C’s endorsement is forged. C is entitled to have the endorsement cancelled, leaving the bill to stand in other respects.

Specific Relief 31 Power to require party for whom instrument is cancelled to make compensation 40. On adjudging the cancellation of an instrument, the court may require the party to whom the relief is granted to make any compensation to the other which justice may require. CHAPTER VI DECLARATORY DECREES Discretion of court as to declaration of status or right 41. Any person entitled to any legal character, or to any right as to any property, may institute a suit against any person denying, or interested to deny, his title to the character or right, and the court may in its discretion make therein a declaration that he is so entitled, and the plaintiff need not in that suit ask for any further relief: Provided that no court shall make any such declaration where the plaintiff, being able to seek further relief than a mere declaration or title, omits to do so. Explanation— A trustee of property is a “person interested to deny” a title adverse to the title of someone who is not in existence, and for whom, if in existence, he would be a trustee. ILLUSTRATIONS (a) A bequeaths his property to B, C and D, “to be equally divided amongst all and each of them, if living at the time of my death, then amongst their surviving children”. No such children are in existence. In a suit against A’s executor, the court may declare whether B, C and D took the property absolutely, or only for their lives, and it may also declare the interests of the children before their rights are vested. (b) A covenants that, if he should at any time be entitled to property exceeding RM100,000, he will settle it upon certain trusts. Before any such property accrues, or any persons entitled under the trusts are ascertained, he institutes a suit to obtain a declaration that the covenant is void for uncertainty. The court may make the declaration. (c) A is in possession of certain property. B, alleging that he is the owner of the property, requires A to deliver it to him. A may obtain a declaration of his right to hold the property.

32 Laws of Malaysia ACT 137 (d) A bequeaths property to B for his life, with remainder to B’s wife and her children, if any, by B, but, if B die without any wife or children to C, B has a putative wife, D, and children, but C denies that B and D were ever lawfully married; D and her children may, in B’s lifetime, institute a suit against C and obtain therein a declaration that they are truly the wife and children of B. Effect of declaration 42. A declaration made under this Chapter is binding only on the parties to the suit, persons claiming through them respectively, and, where any of the parties are trustees, on the persons for whom, if in existence at the date of the declaration, those parties would be trustees. CHAPTER VII APPOINTMENT OF RECEIVERS Appointment of Receivers discretionary 43. The appointment of a Receiver pending a suit is a matter resting in the discretion of the court. The mode and effect of his appointment, and his rights, powers, duties, and liabilities, are regulated by the law relating to civil procedure. CHAPTER V III ENFORCEMENT OF PUBLIC DUTIES Power to order public servants and others to do certain specific acts 44. (1) A Judge may make an order requiring any specific act to be done or forborne, by any person holding a public office, whether of a permanent or a temporary nature, or by any corporation or any court subordinate to the High Court: Provided that— (a) an application for such an order be made by some person whose property, franchise, or personal right would be injured by the forbearing or doing, as the case may be, of the said specific act;

Specific Relief 33 (b) such doing or forbearing is, under any law for the time being in force, clearly incumbent on the person or court in his or its public character, or on the corporation in its corporate character; (c) in the opinion of the Judge the doing or forbearing is consonant to right and justice; (d) the applicant has no other specific and adequate legal remedy; and (e) the remedy given by the order applied for will be complete. (2) Nothing in this section shall be deemed to authorize a Judge— (a) to make any order binding on the Yang di-Pertuan Agong; (b) to make any order on any servant of any Government in Malaysia, as such, merely to enforce the satisfaction of a claim upon that Government; or (c) to make any order which is otherwise expressly excluded by any law for the time being in force. Application how made and procedure 45. Every application under section 44 must be founded on an affidavit of the person injured, stating his right in the matter in question, his demand of justice, and the denial thereof; and a Judge may, in his discretion, make the order applied for absolute in the first instance, or refuse it, or grant a rule to show cause why the order applied for should not be made. If, in the last case, the person, court, or corporation complained of shows no sufficient cause, the Judge may first make an order in the alternative, either to do or forbear the act mentioned in the order, or to signify some reason to the contrary and make an answer thereto by such day as the Judge fixes in this behalf. Peremptory order 46. If the person, court, or corporation to whom or to which such order is directed makes no answer, or makes an insufficient or a false answer, the Judge may then issue a peremptory order to do or forbear the act absolutely.

34 Laws of Malaysia ACT 137 Execution of, and appeal from, orders 47. Every order under this Chapter shall be executed and may be appealed from, as if it were a decree made in the exercise of the ordinary jurisdiction of the High Court. Costs 48. The costs of all applications and orders under this Chapter shall be in the discretion of the Judge. Bar to issue of mandamus 49. Neither the High Court nor any other court in Malaysia shall hereafter issue any writ of mandamus. PART III PREVENTIVE RELIEF CHAPTER IX OF INJUNCTIONS GENERALLY Preventive relief how granted 50. Preventive relief is granted at the discretion of the court by injunction, temporary or perpetual. Temporary and perpetual injunctions 51. (1) Temporary injunctions are such as are to continue until a specified time, or until the further order of the court. They may be granted at any period of a suit, and are regulated by the law relating to civil procedure. (2) A perpetual injunction can only be granted by the decree made at the hearing and upon the merits of the suit; the defendant is thereby perpetually enjoined from the assertion of a right, or from the commission of an act, which would be contrary to the rights of the plaintiff.

Specific Relief 35 CHAPTER X OF PERPETUAL INJUNCTIONS Perpetual injunctions when granted 52. (1) Subject to the other provisions contained in, or referred to by, this Chapter, a perpetual injunction may be granted to prevent the breach of an obligation existing in favour of the applicant, whether expressly or by implication. (2) When such an obligation arises from contract, the court shall be guided by the rules and provisions contained in Chapter II. (3) When the defendant invades or threatens to invade the plaintiff’s right to, or enjoyment of, property, the court may grant a perpetual injunction in the following cases, namely: (a) where the defendant is trustee of the property for the plaintiff; (b) where there exists no standard for ascertaining the actual damage caused, or likely to be caused, by the invasion; (c) where the invasion is such that pecuniary compensation would not afford adequate relief; (d) where it is probable that pecuniary compensation cannot be got for the invasion; and (e) where the injunction is necessary to prevent a multiplicity of judicial proceedings. Explanation— For the purpose of this section a trade-mark is property. ILLUSTRATIONS (a) A lets certain land to B, and B contracts not to dig sand or gravel thereout. A may sue for an injunction to restrain B from digging in violation of his contract. (b) A trustee, threatens a breach of trust. His co-trustees, if any, should, and the beneficial owners may, sue for an injunction to prevent the breach. (c) The directors of a public company are about to pay a dividend out of capital or borrowed money. Any of the shareholders may sue for an injunction to restrain them.

36 Laws of Malaysia ACT 137 (d) The directors of a fire and life insurance company are about to engage in marine insurances. Any of the shareholders may sue for an injunction to restrain them. (e) A , an executor, through misconduct or insolvency, is bringing the property of the deceased into danger. The court may grant an injunction to restrain him from getting in the assets. (f) A, a trustee for B, is about to make an imprudent sale of a small part of the trust-property. B may sue for an injunction to restrain the sale, even though compensation in money would have afforded him adequate relief. (g) A makes a settlement (not founded on marriage or other valuable consideration) of an estate on B and his children. A then contracts to sell the estate to C. B or any of his children may sue for an injunction to restrain the sale. (h) In the course of A’s employment as a solicitor, certain papers belonging to his client, B, come into his possession. A threatens to make these papers public, or to communicate their contents to a stranger. B may sue for an injunction to restrain A from so doing. (i) A is B’s medical adviser. He demands money of B which B declines to pay. A then threatens to make known the effect of B’s communications to him as a patient. This is contrary to A’s duty, and B may sue for an injunction to restrain him from so doing. (j) A , the owner of two adjoining houses, lets one to B and afterwards lets the other to C. A and C begin to make such alterations in the house let to C as will prevent the comfortable enjoyment of the house let to B. B may sue for an injunction to restrain them from so doing. (k) A lets certain arable lands to B for purposes of husbandry, but without any express contract as to the mode of cultivation. Contrary to the mode of cultivation customary in the district, B threatens to sow the lands with seed injurious thereto and requiring many years to eradicate. A may sue for an injunction to restrain B from sowing the lands in contravention of his implied contract to use them in a husbandlike manner. (l) A, B , and C are partners, the partnership being determinable at will. A threatens to do an act tending to the destruction of the partnership-property. B and C may, without seeking a dissolution of the partnership, sue for an injunction to restrain A from doing the act. (m) A , the owner of certain houses in Kelang, becomes insolvent. B buys them from the Official Receiver of A’s estate and enters into possession. A persists in trespassing on and damaging the houses, and B is thereby compelled, at considerable expense, to employ men to protect the possession. B may sue for an injunction to restrain further acts of trespass. (n) A , in an administration-suit to which a creditor, B, is not a party, obtains a decree for the administration of C’s assets, B proceeds against C’s estate for his debt. A may sue for an injunction to restrain B . (o) A and B are in possession of contiguous lands and of the mines underneath them. A works his mine so as to extend under B’s mine and threatens to remove certain pillars which help to support B’s mine. B may sue for an injunction to restrain him from so doing.

Specific Relief 37 (p) A rings bells or makes some other unnecessary noise so near a house as to interfere materially and unreasonably with the physical comfort of the occupier, B. B may sue for an injunction restraining A from making the noise. (q) A pollutes the air with smoke so as to interfere materially with the physical comfort of B and C, who carry on business in a neighbouring house. B and C may sue for an injunction to restrain the pollution. (r) A infringes B’s patent. If the court is satisfied that the patent is valid and has been infringed, B may obtain an injunction to restrain the infringement. (s) A p irates B’s copyright. B may obtain an injunction to restrain the piracy, unless the work of which copyright is claimed is libellous or obscene. (t) A improperly uses the trade mark of B. B may obtain an injunction to restrain the user, provided that B’s use of the trade mark is honest. (u) A , a tradesman, holds out B as his partner against the wish and without the authority of B. B may sue for an injunction to restrain A from so doing. (v) A , a very eminent man, writes letters on family topics to B. After the death of A and B, C, who is B’s residuary legatee, proposes to make money by publishing A’s letters. D, who is A’s executor, has a property in the letters, and may sue for an injunction to restrain C from publishing them. (w) A carries on a manufactory and B is his assistant. In the course of his business, A imparts to B a secret process of value, B afterwards demands money of A, threatening, in case of refusal, to disclose the process to C, a rival manufacturer. A may sue for an injunction to restrain B from disclosing the process. Mandatory injunctions 53. When, to prevent the breach of an obligation, it is necessary to compel the performance of certain acts which the court is capable of enforcing, the court may in its discretion grant an injunction to prevent the breach complained of, and also to compel performance of the requisite acts. ILLUSTRATIONS (a) A, by new buildings, obstructs lights to the access and use of which B has acquired a right by prescription. B may obtain an injunction, not only to restrain A from going on with the buildings, but also to pull down so much of them as obstructs B’s lights. (b) A builds a house with eaves projecting over B’s land. B may sue for an injunction to pull down so much of the eaves as so project. (c) In the case put as illustration (i) to section 52, the court may also order all written communications made by B , as patient, to A, as medical adviser, to be destroyed. (d) In the case put as illustration (v) to section 52 the court may also order A’s letters to be destroyed.

38 Laws of Malaysia ACT 137 (e) A threatens to publish statements concerning B which would be punishable under Chapter XXI of the Penal Code [ Act 574 ]. The court may grant an injunction to restrain the publication, even though it may be shown not to be injurious to B’s property. (f) A , being B’s medical adviser, threatens to publish B’s written communications with him, showing that B has led an immoral life. B may obtain an injunction to restrain the publication. (g) In the cases put as illustrations (s) and (t) to section 52, and as illustrations (e) and (f) to this section, the court may also order the copies produced by piracy, and the trade marks, statements, and communications, therein respectively mentioned, to be given up or destroyed. Injunction when refused 54. An injunction cannot be granted— (a) to stay a judicial proceeding pending at the institution of the suit in which the injunction is sought, unless such a restraint is necessary to prevent a multiplicity of proceedings; (b) to stay proceedings in a court not subordinate to that from which the injunction is sought; (c) to restrain persons from applying to any legislative body; (d) to interfere with the public duties of any department of any Government in Malaysia, or with the sovereign acts of a foreign Government; (e) to stay proceedings in any criminal matter; (f) to prevent the breach of a contract the performance of which would not be specifically enforced; (g) to prevent, on the ground of nuisance, an act of which it is not reasonably clear that it will be a nuisance; (h) to prevent a continuing breach in which the applicant has acquiesced; (i) when equally efficacious relief can certainly be obtained by any other usual mode of proceeding, except in case of breach of trust; (j) when the conduct of the applicant or his agents has been such as to disentitle him to the assistance of the court; or (k) where the applicant has no personal interest in the matter.

Specific Relief 39 ILLUSTRATIONS (a) A seeks an injunction to restrain his partner, B , from receiving the partnership-debts and effects. It appears that A had improperly possessed himself of the books of the firm and refused B access to them. The court will refuse the injunction. (b) A manufactures and sells crucibles, designating them as “patent plumbago crucibles” though, in fact, they have never been patented. B p irates the designation. A cannot obtain an injunction to restrain the piracy. (c) A sells an article called “Mexican Balm” stating that it is compounded of divers rare essences, and has sovereign medicinal qualities. B commences to sell a similar article to which he gives a name and description such as to lead people into the belief that they are buying A’s Mexican Balm. A s ues B for an injunction to restrain the sale. B shows that A’s Mexican Balm consists of nothing but scented hog’s lard. A’s use of his description is not an honest one and he cannot obtain an injunction. Injunction to perform negative agreement 55. Notwithstanding paragraph 54 (f), where a contract comprises an affirmative agreement to do a certain act, coupled with a negative agreement, express or implied, not to do a certain act, the circumstance that the court is unable to compel specific performance of the affirmative agreement shall not preclude it from granting an injunction to perform the negative agreement: Provided that the applicant has not failed to perform the contract so far as it is binding on him. ILLUSTRATIONS (a) A contracts to sell to B for RM1,000 the good-will of a certain business unconnected with business premises, and further agrees not to carry on that business in Klang. B pays A RM1,000 but A carries on the business in Klang. The court cannot compel A to send his customers to B, but B may obtain an injunction restraining A from carrying on the business in Klang. (b) A contracts to sell to B the good-will of a business. A then sets up a similar business close by B’s shop, and solicits his old customers to deal with him. This is contrary to his implied contract, and B may obtain an injunction to restrain A from soliciting the customers, and from doing any act whereby their good-will may be withdrawn from B . (c) A contracts with B to sing for twelve months at B’s theatre and not to sing in public elsewhere. B cannot obtain specific performance of the contract to sing, but he is entitled to an injunction restraining A from singing at any other place of public entertainment.

40 Laws of Malaysia ACT 137 (d) B contracts with A that he will serve him faithfully for twelve months as a clerk. A is not entitled to a decree for specific performance of this contract. But he is entitled to an injunction restraining B from serving a rival house as clerk. (e) A contracts with B that, in consideration of RM1,000 to be paid to him by B on a day fixed, he will not set up a certain business within a specified distance. B fails to pay the money. A cannot be restrained from carrying on the business within the specified distance.

Specific Relief 41 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 137 SPECIFIC RELIEF ACT 1950 LIST OF AMENDMENTS Amending law Short title In force from L.N. 332/1958 Federal Constitution 131958 (Modification of Laws) (Ordinances and Proclaimations) Order 1958 Act A238 Specific Relief (Malay States) 011974 (Amendments and Extension) Act 1974 Act 160 Malaysian Currency (Ringgit) 291975 Act 1975 Act A811 Specific Relief (Amendment) 211992 Act 1992

42 Laws of Malaysia ACT 137 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 137 SPECIFIC RELIEF ACT 1950 LIST OF SECTIONS AMENDED Section Amending authority In force from Long title Act A238 011974 1 Act A238 011974 2 Act A238 011974 7 Act A238 011974 Act A811 211992 8 Act A238 011974 9 Act A238 011974 12 Act A238 011974 20 Act A238 011974 43 Act A238 011974 44 Act A238 011974 49 Act A238 011974 51 Act A238 011974 54 Act A238 011974 56 Act A238 011974 Schedule Act A238 011974 DICETAK OLEH PERCETAKAN NASIONAL MALAYSIA BERHAD, KUALA LUMPUR BAGI PIHAK DAN DENGAN PERINTAH KERAJAAN MALAYSIA