LAWS OF MALAYSIA ONLINE VERSION OF UPDATED TEXT OF REPRINT Act 559 SYARIAH CRIMINAL OFFENCES(FEDERAL TERRITORIES) ACT 1997 As at 1 January 2013 

2 SYARIAH CRIMINAL OFFENCES (FEDERAL TERRITORIES) ACT 1997 Date of Royal Assent ... ... ... … …… 27 March 1997 Date of publication in the Gazette…… 31 March 1997 PREVIOUS REPRINTS First Reprint ...... ... ... ... 2002 Second Reprint ... ... ... ... ... 2006 

3 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 559 SYARIAH CRIMINAL OFFENCES (FEDERAL TERRITORIES) ACT 1997 ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS PART I PRELIMINARY Section 1. Short title, commencement and application 2. Interpretation PART II OFFENCES RELATING TO ‘AQIDAH 3. Wrongful worship 4. False doctrine 5. Propagation of religious doctrines, etc. 6. False claim PART III OFFENCES RELATING TO THE SANCTITY OF THE RELIGION OF ISLAM AND ITS INSTITUTION 7. Insulting, or bringing into contempt, etc., the religion of Islam 8. Deriding, etc., Quranic verses or Hadith 9. Contempt or defiance of religious authorities 10. Defiance of Court order 11. Religious teaching without tauliah 12. Opinion contrary to fatwa 13. Religious publication contrary to Islamic Law 14. Failure to perform Friday prayers 15. Disrespect for Ramadhan 

4 Laws of Malaysia ACT 559 Section 16. Non-payment of zakat or fitrah 17. Instigating neglect of religious duty 18. Gambling 19. Intoxicating drinks PARTIV OFFENCES RELATING TO DECENCY 20. Incest 21. Prostitution 22. Muncikari 23. Sexual intercourse out of wedlock 24. An act preparatory to sexual intercourse out of wedlock 25. Liwat 26. Musahaqah 27. Khalwat 28. Male person posing as woman 29. Indecent acts in public place PART V MISCELLANEOUS OFFENCES 30. Giving false evidence, information or statement 31. Takfir 32. Destroying or defiling mosque, surau, etc. 33. Collection of zakat or fitrah without authority 34. Illegal payment of zakat or fitrah 35. Encouraging vice 36. Enticing a married woman 37. Preventing married couple from cohabiting 38. Instigating husband or wife to divorce or to neglect duties 39. Enticing a female person 40. Selling or giving away child to non-Muslim 

Syariah Criminal Offences (Federal Territories) 5 Section 41. Qazaf 42. Abuses of halal sign PART VI ABETMENT AND ATTEMPT 43. Abetment 44. Abetment in the Federal Territories of offences outside the FederalTerritories 45. Punishment of abetment 46. Liability of abettor when a different act is done 47. Attempt PART VII GENERAL EXCEPTIONS 48. Act of Judge when acting judicially 49. Act done pursuant to the judgment or order of a Court 50. Act done by a person justified by law 51. Act of child who is not baligh 52. Act of person of unsound mind 53. Act which a person is compelled to do by threats PART VIII GENERAL MATTERS 54. Appointment of rehabilitation centre or approved home 55. Power of Court to commit convicted person to an approved rehabilitationcentre 56. Power of Court to commit female offender to an approved home 57. Repeal 58. Amendment of section 164 of the Enactment SCHEDULE

 

7 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 559 SYARIAH CRIMINAL OFFENCES (FEDERAL TERRITORIES) ACT 1997 An Act to provide for Syariah criminal offences, and mattersrelating thereto. [Federal Territories of Kuala Lumpur and Labuan— 1 April 1997, P.U. (A) 103/1997; *Federal Territory of Putrajaya— 1 February 2001, P.U. (A) 251/2002] BE IT ENACTED by the Seri PadukaBaginda Yang di - PertuanAgong with the advice and consent of the Dewan Negara andDewan Rakyat in Parliament assembled, and by the authority ofthe same, as follows: PART I PRELIMINARY Short title, commencement and application 1. (1) This Act may be cited as the Syariah Criminal Offences(Federal Territories) Act 1997 and shall come into force on suchdate as the Yang di -PertuanAgong may, by notification in theGazette, appoint. (2) This Act shall apply only— (a) to the Federal Territories of Kuala Lumpur and Labuan;and (b) to persons professing the religion of Islam. *NOTE—In its application to the Federal Territory of Putrajaya —see the Federal Territory ofPutrajaya (Extension and Modification of Syariah Criminal Offences (Federal Territories) Act1997) Order 2002 [P.U. (A) 251/2002]. 

8 Laws of Malaysia ACT 559 Interpretation 2. (1) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires— “Administration Act” means the Administration of Islamic Law(Federal Territories) Act 1993 [Act 505]; “approved home” means any place or institution appointed assuch under section 54; “approved rehabilitation centre” means any place or institutionappointed as such under section 54; “baligh” means having attained the age of puberty according toIslamic Law; “Court” means the Syariah Subordinate Court, the Syariah HighCourt, or the Syariah Appeal Court, as the case may be, constitutedunder section 40 of the Administration Act; “Enactment” means the Administration of Muslim LawEnactment 1952 of the State of Selangor [Selangor Enactment 3of 1952]— (a) in relation to the Federal Territory of Kuala Lumpur, asmodified by the Federal Territory (Modification ofAdministration of Muslim La w Enactment) Orders 1974[P.U. (A) 44 of 1974 ], 1981 [ P.U. (A) 390 of 1981 ] and1988 [ P.U. (A) 263 of 1988 ] made pursuant to subsection6(4) of the Constitution (Amendment) (No. 2) Act 1973[Act A206] and in force in the Federal Territory of KualaLumpur by vir tue of subsection 6(1) of that Act and theAdministration of Muslim Law (Amendment) Act 1984[Act A576]; and (b) in relation to the Federal Territory of Labuan, as modifiedand extended by the Federal Territory of Labuan(Modification and Extension of Administration of MuslimLaw Enactment) Order 1985 [ P.U. (A) 352 of 1985] madepursuant to section 7 of the Constitution (Amendment)(No. 2) Act 1984 [Act A585]; “fatwa” means any fatwa made under section 34 of theAdministration Act; 

Syariah Criminal Offences (Federal Territories) 9 “Federal Territories” means the Federal Territories of Kuala Lumpur and Labuan; “incest” means sexual intercourse between a man and a womanwho are prohibited from marrying each other under Islamic Law; “Islamic Law” means Islamic Law according to any recognizedmazhab; “Judge” means a judge of the Syariah Appeal Court, the SyariahHigh Court, and the Syariah Subordinate Court appointed undersections 41, 42 and 43 respectively, of the Administration Act; “li’an” means an allegation made by a man under oath in accordancewith Islamic Law that his wife has committed zina; “liwat” means sexual relations between male persons; “Majlis” means the Majlis Agama Islam Wilayah Persekutuanestablished under subsection 4(1) of the Administration Act; “Mufti” means the person appo inted to be the Mufti for theFederal Territories under section 32 of the Administration Act,and includes the Deputy Mufti; “muncikari” means a person who acts as a procurer between afemale and male person for any purpose which is contrary toIslamic Law; “musahaqah” means sexual relations between female persons; “qazaf” means making false allegation on any person; “takfir” means to regard a Muslim as a non-Muslim; “zina” means sexual intercourse between a man and a womanout of wedlock. (2) All words and expressions used in this Act and not hereindefined but defined in the Interpretation Acts 1948 and 1967 [Act388] shall have the meanings thereby assigned to them respectivelyto the extent that such meanings do not conflict with Islamic Law. 

10 Laws of Malaysia ACT 559 (3) For the avoidance of doubt as to the identity or interpretationof the words and expressions used in this Act that are listed in theSchedule, reference may be made to the Arabic script for thosewords and expressions as shown against them therein. PART II OFFENCES RELATING TO ‘AQIDAH Wrongful worship 3. (1) Any person who worships nature or does any act whichshows worship or reverence of any person, animal, place or thingin any manner contrary to Islamic Law shall be guilty of an offenceand shall on conviction be liable to a fine not exceeding threethousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding twoyears or to both. (2) The Court may order that any device, object or thing usedin the commission of or related to the offence referred to insubsection (1) be forfeited and destroyed, notwithstanding that noperson may have been convicted of such offence. False doctrine 4. (1) Any person who teaches or expounds in any place, whetherprivate or public, any doctrine or performs any ceremony or actrelating to the religion of Islam shall, if such doctrine or ceremonyor act is contrary to Islamic Law or any fatwa for the time beingin force in the Federal Territories, be guilty of an offence and shallon conviction be liable to a fine not exceeding five thousandringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding three yearsor to whipping not exceeding six strokes or to any combinationthereof. (2) The Court may order that any document or thing used in thecommission of or related to the offence refer red to in subsection(1) be forfeited and destroyed, notwithstanding that no person mayhave been convicted of such offence. 

Syariah Criminal Offences (Federal Territories) 11 Propagation of religious doctrines, etc. 5. Any person who propagates religious doctrines or beliefs otherthan the religious doctrines or beliefs of the religion of Islamamong persons professing the Islamic faith shall be guilty of anoffence and shall on conviction be liable to a fine not exceedingthree thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceedingtwo years or to both. False claim 6. Any person who— (a) declares himself or any other person a prophet, ImamMahadi or wali; or (b) states or claims that he or some other person knows ofunnatural happenings, such declaration, statement or claim being false and contrary tothe teachings of Islam, shall be guilty of an offence and shall onconviction be liable to a fine not exceeding five thousand ringgitor to imprisonment for a term not exceeding three years or to both. PART III OFFENCES RELATING TO THE SANCTITY OF THE RELIGION OF ISLAM AND ITS INSTITUTION Insulting, or bringing into contempt, etc., the religion of Islam 7. Any person who orally or in writing or by visible representationor in any other manner— (a) insults or brings into contempt the religion of Islam; (b) derides, apes or ridicules the practices or ceremoniesrelating to the religion of Islam; or 

12 Laws of Malaysia ACT 559 (c) degrades or brings into contempt any law relating to thereligion of Islam for the time being in force in the FederalTerritories, shall be guilty of an offence and shall on conviction be liable toa fine not exceeding three thousand ringgit or to imprisonment fora term not exceeding two years or to both. Deriding, etc., Quranic verses or Hadith 8. Any person who, by his words or acts, derides, insults, ridiculesor brings into contempt the verses of Al-Quran or Hadith shall beguilty of an offence and shall on conviction be liable to a fine notexceeding five thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term notexceeding three years or to both. Contempt or defiance of religious authorities 9. Any person who acts in contempt of religious authority ordefies, disobeys or disputes the orders or directions of the Yangdi - PertuanAgong as the Head of the religion of Islam, the Majlisor the Mufti, expressed or given by way of fatwa, shall be guiltyof an offence and shall on conviction be liable to a fine notexceeding three thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term notexceeding two years or to both. Defiance of Court order 10. Any person who defies, disobeys, disputes, degrades, bringsinto contempt any order of a Judge or Court shall be guilty of anoffence and shall on conviction be liable to a fine not exceedingthree thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceedingtwo years or to both. Religious teaching without tauliah 11. (1) Any person who teaches or professes to teach any matterrelating to the religion of Islam without a tauliah granted undersection 96 of the Administration Act shall be guilty of an 

Syariah Criminal Offences (Federal Territories) 13 offenceand shall on conviction be liable to a fine not exceeding fivethousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding threeyears or to both. (2) Subsection (1) shall not apply to— (a) any person or class of persons exempted by the Majlisunder section 98 of the Administration Act; or (b) any person who teaches or professes to teach any matterrelating to the religion of Islam in his own residence tomembers of his own household only. Opinion contrary to fatwa 12. Any person who gives, propagates or disseminates any opinionconcerning Islamic teachings, Islamic Law or any issue, contraryto any fatwa for the time being in force in the Federal Territoriesshall be guilty of an offence and shall on conviction be liable t oa fine not exceeding three thousand ringgit or to imprisonment fora term not exceeding two years or to both. Religious publication contrary to Islamic Law 13. (1) Any person who— (a) prints, publishes, produces, records, distributes or in anyother manner disseminates any book, pamphlet, documentor any form of recording containing anything which iscontrary to Islamic Law; or (b) has in his possession any such book, pamphlet, documentor recording, shall be guilty of an offence and shall on conviction be liable toa fine not exceeding three thousand ringgit or to imprisonment fora term not exceeding two years or to both. (2) The Court may order that any book, pamphlet, document orrecording referred to in subsection (1) be forfeited and 

14 Laws of Malaysia ACT 559 destroyed,notwithstanding that no person may have been convicted of anoffence connected therewith. Failure to perform Friday prayers 14. Any male person, being baligh, who fails to perform theFriday prayers in a mosque within his kariah for three consecutiveweeks without uzursyarie or without any reasonable cause shallbe guilty of an offence and shall on conviction be liable to a finenot exceeding one thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a termnot exceeding six months or to both. Disrespect for Ramadhan 15. Any perso n who during the hours of fasting in the month ofRamadhan— (a) sells to any Muslim any food, drink, cigarette or otherform of tobacco for immediate consumption during suchhours; or (b) openly or in a public place is found to be eating, drinkingor smoking, shall be guilty of an offence and shall on conviction be liable toa fine not exceeding one thousand ringgit or to imprisonment fora term not exceeding six months or to both, and for a second orsubsequent offence to a fine not exceeding two thousand ringgitor to imprisonment for a term not exceeding one year or to both. Non-payment of zakat or fitrah 16. Any person who, being liable to pay zakat or fitrah— (a) refuses or wilfully fails to pay the zakat or fitrah; or (b) refuses or wilfully fails to pay the zakat or fitrah throughan amil appointed, or any other person authorized, by theMajlis to collect zakat or fitrah, 

Syariah Criminal Offences (Federal Territories) 15 shall be guilty of an offence and shall on conviction be liable toa fine not exceeding one thousand ringgit or to imprisonment fora term not exceeding six months or to both. Instigating neglect of religious duty 17. (1) Any person who instigates or induces any Muslim not toattend mosque or religious teachings or any religious ceremonyshall be guilty of an offence and shall on conviction be liable toa fine not exceeding one thousand ringgit or to imprisonment fora term not exceeding six months or to both. (2) Any person who in any manner prevents another personfrom paying zakat or fitrah shall be guilty of an offence and shallon conviction be liable to a fine not exceeding two thousandringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding one year orto both. Gambling 18. (1) Any person who gambles, or is found in a gaming house,shall be guilty of an offence and shall on conviction be liable toa fine not exceeding three thousand ringgit or to imprisonment fora term not exceeding two years or to both. (2) In this section, “gaming house” means any premises, includinga room, an office or a stall, whether open or enclosed, used or keptfor the purpose of any game of chance or a combination of skilland chance, whether permitted by any other law or otherwise, formoney or money’s worth. Intoxicating drinks 19. (1) Any person who in any shop or other public place, consumesany intoxicating drink shall be guilty of an offence and shall onconviction be liable to a fine not exceeding three thousand ringgitor to imprisonment for a term not exceeding two years or to both. (2) Any person who makes, sells, offers or exhibits for sale,keeps or buys any intoxicating drink shall be guilty of an offenceand shall 

16 Laws of Malaysia ACT 559 on conviction be liable to a fine not exceeding fivethousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding threeyears or to both. PART IV OFFENCES RELATING TO DECENCY Incest 20. Any person who commits incest shall be guilty of an offenceand shall on conviction be liable to a fine not exceeding fivethousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding threeyea rs or to whipping not exceeding six strokes or to any combinationthereof. Prostitution 21. (1) Any woman who prostitutes herself shall be guilty of anoffence and shall on conviction be liable to a fine not exceedingfive thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceedingthree years or to whipping not exceeding six strokes or to anycombination thereof. (2) Any person who— (a) prostitutes his wife or a female child under his care; or (b) causes or allows his wife or a female child under his careto prostitute herself, shall be guilty of an offence and shall on conviction be liable toa fine not exceeding five thousand ringgit or to imprisonment fora term not exceeding three years or to whipping not exceeding sixstrokes or to any combination thereof. Muncikari 22. Any person who acts as a muncikari shall be guilty of anoffence and shall on conviction be liable to a fine not exceedingfive thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceedingthree years or to whipping not exceeding six strokes or to anycombination thereof. 

Syariah Criminal Offences (Federal Territories) 17 Sexual intercourse out of wedlock 23. (1) Any man who performs sexual intercourse with a womanwho is not his lawful wife shall be guilty of an offence and shallon conviction be liable to a fine not exceeding five thousandringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding three yearsor to whipping not exceeding six strokes or to any combinationthereof. (2) Any woman who performs sexual intercourse with a manwho is not her lawful husband shall be guilty of an offe nce andshall on conviction be liable to a fine not exceeding five thousandringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding three yearsor to whipping not exceeding six strokes or to any combinationthereof. (3) The fact that a woman is pregnant out of w edlock as a resultof sexual intercourse performed with her consent shall be primafacie evidence of the commission of an offence undersubsection (2) by that woman. (4) For the purpose of subsection (3), any woman who givesbirth to a fully developed child within a period of six qamariahmonths from the date of her marriage shall be deemed to have beenpregnant out of wedlock. An act preparatory to sexual intercourse out of wedlock 24. Any person who does an act preparatory to sexual intercourseout of wedlock shall be guilty of an offence and shall on convictionbe liable to a fine not exceeding three thousand ringgit or toimprisonment for a term not exceeding two years or to both. Liwat 25. Any male person who commits liwatshall be guilty of anoffence and shall on conviction be liable to a fine not exceedingfive thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceedingthree years or to whipping not exceeding six strokes or to anycombination thereof. 

18 Laws of Malaysia ACT 559 Musahaqah 26. Any female person who commits musahaqah shall be guiltyof an offence and shall on conviction be liable to a fine notexceeding five thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term notexceeding three years or to whipping not exceeding six strokes orto any combination thereof. Khalwat 27. Any— (a) man who is found together with one or more women, notbeing his wife or mahram; or (b) woman who is found together with one or more men, notbeing her husband or mahram, in any secluded place or in a house or room under circumstanceswhich may give rise to suspicion that they were engaged in immoralacts shall be guilty of an offence and shall on conviction be liableto a fine not exceeding three thousand ringgit or to imprisonmentfor a term not exceeding two years or to both. Male person posing as woman 28. Any male person who, in any public place, wears a woman’sattire and poses as a woman for immoral purposes shall be guiltyof an offence and shall on conviction be liable to a fine notexceeding one thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a ter m notexceeding one year or to both. Indecent acts in public place 29. Any person who, contrary to Islamic Law, acts or behavesin an indecent manner in any public place shall be guilty of anoffence and shall on conviction be liable to a fine not exceedingone thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceedingsix months or to both. 

Syariah Criminal Offences (Federal Territories) 19 PART V MISCELLANEOUS OFFENCES Giving false evidence, information or statement 30. (1) Any person who gives false evidence or fabricates evidencefor the purpose of being used in any stage of a judicial proceedingsin the Court shall be guilty of an offence and shall on convictionbe liable to a fine not exceeding three thousand ringgit or toimprisonment for a term not exceeding two years or to both. (2) Any person who knowing or having reason to believe thatan offence has been committed under this Act or under any otherwritten law relating to the religion of Islam, gives any informationrelating to such offence which he knows or believes to be falseshall be guilty of an offence and shall on conviction be liable toa fine not exceeding three thousand ringgit or to imprisonment fora term not exceeding two years or to both. Takfir 31. (1) Subject to subsection (2), any person who alleges or imputesby words, either spoken or written, or by sign or visible representation,or by any act, activity or conduct, or by organising, promoting orarranging any activity or otherwise in any manner, that any personprofessing the religion of Islam or person belonging to any group,class or description of persons professing the religion of Islam— (a) is or are kafir; (b) has or have ceased to profess the religion of Islam; (c) should not be accepted, or cannot be accepted, as professingthe religion of Islam; or (d) does not or do not believe in, follow, profess, or belongto, the religion of Islam, 

20 Laws of Malaysia ACT 559 shall be guilty of an offence and shall on conviction be liable toa fine not exceeding five thousand ringgit or to imprisonment fora term not exceeding three years or to both. (2) Subsection (1) shall not apply to— (a) anything done by any Court or religious authorityestablished, constituted or appointed by or under anywritten law and empowered to give or issue any rulingor decision on any matter relating to the religion of Islam;and (b) anything done by any person pursuant to or in accordancewith any ruling or decision given or issued by such Courtor religious authority, whether or not such ruling or decisionis in writing or, if in writing, whether or not it is publishedin the Gazette. Destroying or defiling mosque, surau, etc. 32. Any person who destroys, damages or defiles any mosque orsurau or other place of worship or any of its equipment with theintention of thereby insulting or degrading the religion of Islamshall be guilty of an offence and shall on conviction be liable toa fine not exceeding three thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding two years or to both. Collection of zakat or fitrah without authority 33. Any person who collects zakat or fitrahor causes to becollected zakat or fitrah without having been appointed as amil orotherwise authorized by the Majlisshall be guilty of an offenceand shall on conviction be liable to a fine not exceeding threethousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding twoyears or to both, and the Court shall order such collection to beconfiscated and paid into the Fund established under section 60of the Administration Act. 

Syariah Criminal Offences (Federal Territories) 21 Illegal payment of zakat or fitrah 34. Any person who pays or causes to be paid payment of zakator fitrah to any person not lawfully authorized to collect zakat orfitrahshall be guilty of an offence and shall on conviction beliable to a fine not exceeding one thousand ringgit or to imprisonmentfor a term not exceeding six months or to both. Encouraging vice 35. Any person who promotes, induces or encourages anotherperson to indulge in any vice shal l be guilty of an offence and shallon conviction be liable to a fine not exceeding five thousandringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding three yearsor to both. Enticing a married woman 36. Any person who entices a married woman or takes her awayfrom or in any manner influences her to leave the matrimonialhome determined by her husband shall be guilty of an offence andshall on conviction be liable to a fine not exceeding five thousandringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding three ye arsor to both, and the Court shall order the said woman to return toher husband. Preventing married couple from cohabiting 37. Any person who prevents a married couple from cohabitingas a legally married couple shall be guilty of an offence and shallon conviction be liable to a fine not exceeding two thousandringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding one year orto both, and the Court shall order the couple to cohabit as a legallymarried couple. Instigating husband or wife to divorce or to neglect duties 38. Any person who instigates, forces or persuades any man orwoman to be divorced or to neglect his or her duties andresponsibilities as a husband or a wife shall be guilty of an offenceand shall on conviction be liable to a fine not exceeding 

22 Laws of Malaysia ACT 559 fivethousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding threeyears or to both. Enticing a female person 39. Any person who entices or induces or persuades any femaleperson to run away from the custody of her parents or guardianshall be guilty of an offence and shall on conviction be liable toa fine not exceeding three thousand ringgit or to imprisonment fora term not exceeding two years or to both, and the Court may makesuch order as it deems appropriate in respect of the female person. Selling or giving away child to non-Muslim 40. Any person who sells, gives away or delivers his child or achild under his care to any person who is not a Muslim shall beguilty of an offence and shall on conviction be liable to a fine notexceeding three thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term notexceeding two years or to both, and the Court may make suchorder as it deems appropriate in respect of the child. Qazaf 41. Except in cases of li‘an, any person who accuses anotherperson of committing zina without procuring four male witnessesor an iqrar of the accused person in accordance with Islamic Lawshall be guilty of an offence and shall on conviction be liable toa fine not exceeding five thousand ringgit or to imprisonment fora term not exceeding three years or to both. Abuses of halal sign 42. Any person who displays, on or in respect of any food ordrink which is not halal, any sign which indicates that such foodor drink is halal, shall be guilty of an offence and shall on convictionbe liable to a fine not exceeding five thousand ringgit or toimprisonment for a term not exceeding three years or to both. 

Syariah Criminal Offences (Federal Territories) 23 PART VI ABETMENT AND ATTEMPT Abetment 43. A person abets the doing of a thing who— (a) instigates any person to do that thing; (b) engages with one other person or more in any conspiracyfor the doing of that thing, if an act or illegal omissiontakes place in pursuance of that conspiracy, and in orderto the doing of that thing; or (c) intentionally aids, by any act or illegal omission, thedoing of that thing: Explanation 1 —A person who, by wilful misrepresentation, or bywilful concealment of a material fact which he is bound to disclose,voluntarily causes or procures, or attempts to cause or procure,a thing to be done is said to instigate the doing of that thing. Explanation 2 —Any person, either prior to or at the time of thecommission of an act, does anything in order to facilitate thecommission of that act, and thereby facilitates the commissionthereof, is said to aid the doing of that act. Abetment in the Federal Territories of offences outside theFederal Territories 44. A person abets an offence within the meaning of this Actwho, in the Federal Territories, abets the commission of an actoutside the Federal Territories which would constitute an offe nceif committed in the Federal Territories. Punishment of abetment 45. Any person who abets any offence shall, if the act abettedis committed in consequence of the abetment, be punished withthe punishment provided for the offence. 

24 Laws of Malaysia ACT 559 Liability of abettor when a different act is done 46. Where an act is abetted and a different act is done, theabettor is liable for the act done in the same manner and to thesame extent as if he had abetted the act done if the act done— (a) was a probable consequence of the abetment; and (b) was committed under the influence of the instigation, orwith the aid or in pursuance of the conspiracy whichconstituted the abetment. Attempt 47. (1) Any person who attempts— (a) to commit an offence punishable under this Act or underany other written law relating to Islamic law; or (b) to cause such an offence to be committed, and in such attempt does any act towards the commission of suchoffence, shall, where no express provision is made by this Act orby such other written law, as the case may be, for the punishmentof such attempt, be punished with such punishment as is providedfor the offence. (2) Any term of imprisonment imposed as a punishment for anattempt to commit an offence or to cause an offence to be committedshall not exceed one half of the maximum term provided for theoffence. PART VII GENERAL EXCEPTIONS Act of Judge when acting judicially 

Syariah Criminal Offences (Federal Territories) 25 48. Nothing is an offence which is done by a Judge when actingjudicially in the exercise of any power which is, or which in goodfaith he believes to be, given to him by law. Act done pursuant to the judgment or order of a Court 49. Nothing is an offence which is done in pursuance of, orwhich is warranted by the judgment or order of, a Court if donewhilst such judgment or order remains in force, notwithstandingthat the Court may have no jurisdiction to pass such judgment ororder, if the person doing the act in good faith believes that theCourt had such jurisdiction. Act done by a person justified by law 50. Nothing is an offence which is done by a person who isjustified by law, or who by reason of a mistake of fact and not byreason of mistake of law in good faith believes himself to bejustified by law, in doing. Act of child who is not baligh 51. Nothing is an offence which is done by a child who is notbaligh. Act of person of unsound mind 52. (1) Nothing is an offence which is done by a person who atthe time of doing it, by reason of unsoundness of mind, is incapableof knowing the nature of the act or that what he is doing is wronga nd contrary to law. (2) For the purpose of this section, if a person was in a stateof intoxication at the time of the act or omission complained ofand— (a) the state of intoxication was such that he did not knowthat the act or omission was wrong or he did not knowwhat he was doing; and (b) the state of intoxication was caused without his consentby the malicious or negligent act of another person, 

26 Laws of Malaysia ACT 559 he shall be deemed to be a person of unsound mind. (3) In this section, “intoxication” shall be deemed to include astate produced by drugs. Act which a person is compelled to do by threats 53. (1) Nothing is an offence which is done by a person who iscompelled to do it by threats, which at the time of doing it reasonablycaused the apprehension that instant death to the person will otherwisebe the consequence. (2) The exception under subsection (1) shall not apply if theperson doing the act placed himself, of his own accord, in thesituation by which he became subject to such constraint. PART VIII GENERAL MATTERS Appointment of rehabilitation centre or approved home 54. The Majlis may, by notification in the Gazette, appoint anyplace or institution to be an approved rehabilitation centre or anapproved home for the purposes of this Act. Power of Court to commit convicted person to an approvedrehabilitation centre 55. Where the Court has convicted any person of an offenceunder Part II or under section 7, 8, 9 or 31, such Court may, inlieu of or in addition to any punishment specified for such offence,or der any such person to be committed to an approved rehabilitationcentre to undergo such counselling or rehabilitation for any periodnot exceeding six months as may be specified in the order; butwhere any sentence of imprisonment is imposed together with th ecounselling or rehabilitation the period thereof shall not in theaggregate exceed three years. 

Syariah Criminal Offences (Federal Territories) 27 Power of Court to commit female offender to an approvedhome 56. Where the Court has convicted any female person of anoffence under Part IV, such Court may, in lieu of or in additionto any punishment specified for such offence, order any suchperson to be committed to an approved home for such period notexceeding six months as may be specified in such order; but whereany sentence of imprisonment is imposed tog ether with suchcommittal the period thereof shall not in the aggregate exceedthree years. Repeal 57. (1) Part IX of the Enactment, other than sections 164 and 165,shall cease to apply to the Federal Territories and shall to thatextent be deemed to have been repealed. (2) Notwithstanding the repeal of Part IX of the Enactment (the“repealed Part”) all proceedings under that repealed Part, includingany appeal from any Court under the repealed Part, shall be continuedas if this Act had not been passed. Amendment of Section 164 of the Enactment 58. Section 164 of the Enactment in its application to the FederalTerritories is amended by substituting for the words “34 of thisEnactment” the words “28 of the Administration of Islamic Law(Federal Territories) Act 1993”. 

28 Laws of Malaysia ACT 559 SCHEDULE [Subsection 2(3)] ARABIC SCRIPT FOR CERTAIN WORDS AND EXPRESSIONS ‘aqidah baligh Hadith iqrar li’an mahram musahaqah qamariah qazaf takfir zina 

29 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 559 SYARIAH CRIMINAL OFFENCES (FEDERAL TERRITORIES) ACT 1997 LIST OF AMENDMENTS Amending law Short title In force from P.U. (A) 251/2002 Federal Territory of Putrajaya (Extension and Modification of Syariah Criminal Offences (Federal Territories) Act 1997) Order 2002 012001 

30 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 559 SYARIAH CRIMINAL OFFENCES (FEDERAL TERRITORIES) ACT 1997 LIST OF SECTIONS AMENDED Section Amending authority In force from – NIL –