LAWS OF MALAYSIA ONLINE VERSION OF UPDATED TEXT OF REPRINT Act 568 LEMBAGA KEMAJUAN JOHOR TENGGARA (DISSOLUTION) ACT 1997 As at 1 December 2011 

2 LEMBAG A KEMAJUA N JOHOR TENGGARA (DISSOLUTION) ACT 1997 Date of Royal Assent ... ... ... … … 18 June 1997 Date of publicatio n in the Gazett e … … 30 June 1997 PREVIOU S REPRINTS First Reprin t ... ... ... ... ... 2002 Second Reprin t ... ... ... ... ... 2006 

3 LAWS OF MALAYSIA ACT 568 LEMBAG A KEMAJUAN JOHOR TENGGARA (DISSOLUTION) ACT 1997 ARRANGEMEN T OF SECTIONS Section 1. Short title 2. Interpretation 3. Repeal and dissolution 4. Transfe r of powers , rights , etc. 5. Transfe r of property 6. Transfe r of funds 7. Existin g contracts , etc. 8. Continuanc e of crimina l and civil proceedings 9. Continuanc e of laws, etc. 10. Preventio n of difficultie s or anomalies 

5 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 568 LEMBAG A KEMAJUA N JOHOR TENGGARA (DISSOLUTION) ACT 1997 An Act to repeal the Lembaga Kemajuan Johor Teng gara Act 1972, to dissolve the Lembaga Kemajuan Johor Tenggara established under the Act, to transfer all its properties to the Government and to provide for other matters connected therewith. [ ] BE IT ENACTED by the Seri Paduka Baginda Yang di -Pertuan Agong with the advice and consent of the Dewan Negara and Dewan Rakyat in Parliament assembled, and by the authority of the same, as follows: Short title 1. This Act may b e cited as the Lembaga Kemajuan Johor Tenggara (Dissolution) Act 1997 and shall come into force on such date as the Minister may, by notification in the Gazette, appoint. Interpretation 2. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires— “appointed date” means the date appointed by the Minister under section 1; 

 Lembaga Kemajuan Johor Tenggara (Dissolution) 6 “Federal Lands Commissioner” means the Federal Lands Commissioner appointed under the Federal Lands Commissioner Act 1957 [Act 349]; “Lembaga” means the Lembaga Kemajuan Johor Tenggara established under the Lembaga Kemajuan Johor Tenggara Act 1983 [Act 75]; “Minister” means the Minister charged wi th the responsibility for rural development. Repeal and dissolution 3. The Lembaga Kemajuan Johor Tenggara Act 1972 is repealed and the Lembaga established thereunder is dissolved. Transfer of powers, rights, etc. 4. All powers, rights, privileges, duties, liabilities and obligations which immediately before the appointed date were those of the Lembaga shall, as from that date, devolve on the Government. Transfer of property 5. (1) All lands which immediately before the appointed date were vested in the Lembaga shall, on the appointed date, vest in the Federal Lands Commissioner for the purposes of the Government. (2) All properties and assets other than land which immediately before th e appointed date were vested in the Lembaga or in any person on its behalf shall, on that date, vest in the Government. 

 Lembaga Kemajuan Johor Tenggara (Dissolution) 7 Transfer of funds 6. All moneys standing in, or due to be paid to , the Lembaga shall, on the appointed date, be transferred to, and vest in the Government. Existing contracts, etc. 7. All deeds, bonds, agreements, instruments and working arrangements subsisting immediately before the appointed date and affecting any of the property transferred under section 5 shall be of full force and effect against or in favour of the Government and enforceable as fully and effectually as if, instead of the Lembaga or any person acting on its behalf, the Governme nt had been named therein or had been a party thereto. Continuance of criminal and civil proceedings 8. (1) The repeal of the Lembaga Kemajuan Johor Tenggara Act 1972 shall not affect any person’s liability to be prosecuted or punished for offences committed under the repealed Act before the appointed date, or any proceedings brought or sentence imposed before that date in respect of such offence. (2) Any proceedings (whether civil or criminal) or cause of action pending or existing immediately bef ore the appointed date by or against the Lembaga or any person acting on its behalf may be continued or instituted by or against the Government as it might have been continued or instituted by or against the Lembaga or such person as if this Act had not been passed. (3) Any appeal brought, or any leave to appeal applied for, on or after the appointed date, against a decision given before the appointed date in any legal proceedings to which the Lembaga was a party may be brought by or against the Government as it might have been 

 Lembaga Kemajuan Johor Tenggara (Dissolution) 8 brought by or against the Lembaga as if this Act had not been passed. Continuance of laws, etc 9. Subject to this Act, all written laws, including subsidiary legislation, affecting or for the protection of the Lembaga and in force immediately before the appointed date shall, until amended or revoked by the appropriate authority having power so to do, continue in force and be construed as if this Act had not been passed: Provided that any reference in such written laws to the Lembaga, unless the context otherwise requires, shall be construed as a reference to the Government and expressions importing such a reference shall be construed accordingly. Prevention of difficulties or anomalies 10. (1) If any diffic ulty or anomaly arises in connection with the implementation of this Act, the Minister may by order make such modifications to any provision of this Act as may appear to him to be necessary for removing or preventing such difficulty or anomaly: Provided that the Minister shall not exercise the powers conferred by this section after the expiration of three years from the appointed date. (2) I n this section, “modifications” includes amendments, additions, deletions, substitutions, adaptations, va riations, alteration and non-application of any provision of this Act. 

9 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 568 LEMBAG A KEMAJUA N JOHOR TENGGARA (DISSOLUTION) ACT 1997 LIST OF AMENDMENTS Amendin g law Short titl e from In force ─NIL─ _______________ 

10 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 568 LEMBAG A KEMAJUA N JOHOR TENGGARA (DISSOLUTION) ACT 1997 LIST OF SECTION S AMENDED Sectio n Amendin g authorit y In force from ─NIL─ _______________