LAWS OF MALAYSIA REPRINT PUBLISHED BY THE COMMISSIONER OF LAW REVISION , MALAYSIA UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF THE REVISION OF LAWS ACT 1968 IN COLLABORATION WITH MALAYAN LAW JOURNAL SDN BHD AND PERCETAKAN NASIONAL MALAYSIA BHD 2006 Act 27 PRIVATE AGENCIES ACT 1971 Incorporating all amendments up to 1 January 2006 027e.fm Monday, March 27, 2006 2:20 PM

PREPARED FOR PUBLICATION BY MALAYAN LAW JOURNAL SDN BHD AND PRINTED BY PERCETAKAN NASIONAL MALAYSIA BERHAD KUALA LUMPUR BRANCH 2006 2 PRIVATE AGENCIES ACT 1971 D a t e o f R o y a l A s s e n t ……………2 4 A p r i l 1971 Date of publication in the Gazette … … … 29 April 1971 PREVIOUS REPRINTS F i r s t R e p r i n t ……………1 9 9 3 S e c o n d R e p r i n t …………1 9 9 9 027e.fm Monday, March 27, 2006 2:20 PM

Private Agencies 3 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 27 ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS PRIVATE AGENCIES ACT 1971 Section 1. Short title and application 2. Interpretation 3. Issue of licences 4. Revocation, cancellation or suspension of licences 5. List to be published 6. Special provision relating to seizable offence 7. Identification papers 8. Power of police of ficer to examine 9. Employees of a licensed private agency 10. Uniform, badge or emblem 11. Power of entry and search of pr emises of a licensed private agency 12. Power of entry to and search of premises suspected of being used by unlicensed private agencies 13. False statement 14. General penalty 15. Seizable offence 16. Liability of director, etc. 17. Power of Minister to delegate 18. Power to make rules 19. Saving 20. Repeal 027e.fm Monday, March 27, 2006 2:20 PM

027e.fm Monday, March 27, 2006 2:20 PM

Private Agencies 5 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 27 PRIVATE AGENCIES ACT 1971 An Act to control the busin ess of private agencies. [Throughout Malaysia—30 April 1971] BE IT ENACTED by the Seri Paduka Baginda Yang di-Pertuan Agong with the advice and consent of the Dewan Negara and Dewan Rakyat in Parliament asse mbled, and by the authority of the same, as follows: Short title and application 1. This Act may be cited as th e Private Agencies Act 1971 and shall apply throughout Malaysia. Interpretation 2. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires— “business of private agency” m eans the business or activities which are carried on by a person for the purpose of— (a) providing guards and protection for the personal safety and security of anot her person or for the safety and security of the property or business of such other person; or (b) obtaining and furnishing inform ation as to the conduct, activities or affair s of another person; “letter of approval” means a le tter of approval issued under section 9; “licensed private agency” means a private agency in respect of whose business a licence is issued under section 3; “Minister” means the Minister charged with the responsibility for internal security; and wher e by virtue of section 17 the Minister has delegated any or all of his powers and duties to the extent of such delegation the e xpression “Minister” includes any 027e.fm Monday, March 27, 2006 2:20 PM

6 Laws of Malaysia ACT 27 person to whom so much of that power or duty has been so delegated; “private agency” means a pers on who carries on a business of private agency as hereinbefore defined; “unlicensed private agency” means a private agency in respect of whose business no licence under section 3 is issued. Issue of licences 3. (1) No person shall carry on th e business of private agency except in pursuance of and in a ccordance with a licence issued by or on behalf of the Minister and unless there is, in respect of such business, a deposit made in a manner provided by or under subsection (3). (2) Any person who desires to carry on the business of private agency shall apply to the Minister for a licence and, subject to the provisions of the following subs ections, the Minister may issue such licence or refuse to issue it; and in issuing such licence or renewing the same under subsecti on (4) the Minister may impose thereon such conditions as he ma y deem desirable for the purpose of carrying into effect th e provisions of this Act. (3) No licence under this Act shall be issued or if issued, no business of private agency shall be carried on, unless there has been made, kept and continued to be kept at all times with the Accountant General a de posit of such sum and in such form as the Minister may prescribe. (4) It shall be a condition preced ent to the issue of a licence under this section that the applicant shall have paid such fee as may be prescribed by the Minister and such licence shall expire not later than the end of the cale ndar year in which it commences, but may be renewed every year upon payment of the aforesaid fee. (5) The Minister may by order ex empt any person or class of persons from the provisi ons of this section. Revocation, cancellation or suspension of licences 4. (1) Where in the opinion of the Minister a licensed private agency carries on its business or engages in activities or its business is being used for a ny purpose prejudicial to peace, 027e.fm Monday, March 27, 2006 2:20 PM

Private Agencies 7 welfare and good order in the Fede ration, or contravenes this Act or any other written law, the Mi nister may, subject to subsection (4), revoke or cancel or suspend the licence is sued to such licensed private agency. (2) If the revocation, cancellati on or suspension of a licence under this section is made by a pe rson to whom the Minister has by virtue of section 17 delegate d his power under this section, a licensed private agency who is aggrieved by the revocation, cancellation or suspension of hi s licence may within 14 days of such revocation, cancellation or suspension appeal to the Minister. (3) The decision of the Mini ster in revoking, cancelling or suspending the licence under subsect ion (1) or made on an appeal under subsection (2) shall be fina l and shall not be questioned in any court. (4) Before revoking, cancelling or suspending a licence, the Minister shall give an opportunity to the licensed private agency concerned to show cause why such licence should not be revoked, cancelled or suspended, as the case may be. (5) Where the licence of a private agency is revoked, cancelled or suspende d under this section, th e deposit kept under subsection 3(3) shall forthwith be forfeited to the Government and shall thereupon be paid into the Consolidated Fund. List to be published 5. The Minister shall, in the mo nth of March every year, cause to be published in the Gazette a list of licensed private agencies, and additions to and deletions fro m the list shall be published from time to time as they are made. Special provision relating to seizable offence 6. Nothing in this Act shall enti tle a licensed private agency to enquire into any seizable offence and if a licensed private agency or the employees thereof duri ng the course of business or otherwise obtain any information re lating to any seizable offence (whether already committed or to be committed) such licensed private agency or the employees thereof shall pass on such 027e.fm Monday, March 27, 2006 2:20 PM

8 Laws of Malaysia ACT 27 information to a police officer or make a report at the nearest police station. Identification papers 7. (1) Every licensed private agency shall provide for and issue to its employees identification pape rs in such form and containing such particulars as may be prescribed by the Minister. (2) Every employee of a licensed private agency shall at all times carry the identification paper and produce the same for inspection when required by a polic e officer to do so and shall surrender the identification paper to the licensed private agency, if he ceases to be employed. Power of police officer to examine 8. Any police officer may examine identification papers issued under section 7 and may also exa mine the licence issued under section 3. Employees of a licensed private agency 9. (1) No person shall be employe d in any capacity whatsoever by a licensed private agency unl ess there has been issued in respect of such person a letter of approval by the Commissioner of Police or the Chief Police Officer. (2) A licensed private agency who desires to employ a person shall apply for a letter of approva l to the Commissioner of Police or the Chief Police Officer of the State in which th at person ordinarily resides or, if he is or dinarily resident outside Malaysia, to the Commissioner of Police or the Chief Police Officer of the State in which the licensed pr ivate agency has its registered office, and the applicat ion shall be in such form and shall contain such particulars as may be prescribed by the Minister. (3) Upon receipt of an application for a letter of approval, the Commissioner of Police or the Chief Police Officer may, after making such enquiries as he ma y deem appropriate, issue a letter of approval. 027e.fm Monday, March 27, 2006 2:20 PM

Private Agencies 9 (4) For the purpose of making inquiries under subsection (3), the Commissioner of Police or the Chief Polic e Officer may require the person to be employed to submit to all such steps as may be reasonably necessary for the taking and recording of his fingerprints. (5) The Commissioner of Police or the Chief Police Officer may refuse to issue a letter of approval. (6) Any person whose application for a letter of approval is refused may within 14 days from the date of such refusal appeal to the Minister who may confirm the decision or direct the issue of a letter of approval. (7) The decision of the Minister on an appeal under subsection (6) shall be final. Uniform, badge or emblem 10. Subject to any law relating to uniform, badge or emblem, any uniform, badge or emblem intend ed to be worn by the employees of a licensed private agency shall first be approved by the Minister. Power of entry and search of premises of a licensed private agency 11. (1) If the Minister has reason to believe that any licensed private agency carries on its busine ss or engages in activities or its business is being used for purposes prejudicial to peace, welfare and good order in the Federation, he may authorize in writing a police officer not below the rank of Assistant Superintendent to enter into any place which the Mi nister has reason to believe is used as the place of meeting or business of such private agency. (2) Any officer authorized to exercise the powers of entry under this section ma y without warrant an d with or without assistance and using force for th at purpose if necessary, enter such place and may search su ch place and any person found therein or escaping therefrom: Provided no woman shall be se arched under this subsection except by a woman. 027e.fm Monday, March 27, 2006 2:20 PM

10 Laws of Malaysia ACT 27 (3) Any officer authorized to exercise the powers of entry under this section may seize any document or other thing which he reasonably believes to be or to contain evidence relating to the business or activities mentioned in subsection (1). (4) Nothing in this section shall be deemed to affect the powers of a pol ice officer under the Cr iminal Procedure Code [Act 593 ] or any other written law. Power of entry to and search of premises suspected of being used by unlicensed private agencies 12. (1) If the Minister has reason to believe that business of an unlicensed private agency is carried on or that any books, accounts or other documents of such unlicensed private agency are kept or deposited in any prem ises or place, he may authorize in writing a police officer not below the rank of Assistant Superintendent to enter into such premises or place. (2) Any officer authorized to exercise the powers of entry under this section ma y without warrant an d with or without assistance and using force for th at purpose if necessary, enter such place and may search su ch place and any person found therein or escaping therefrom: Provided no woman shall be se arched under this subsection except by a woman. (3) Any officer authorized to exercise the powers of entry under this section may seize any books, accounts or other documents which he reasonably be lieves to be or to contain evidence relating to the business of an unlicensed private agency. (4) Nothing in this section shal l be deemed to affect the powers of a police offi cer under the Criminal Procedure Code or any other written law. False statement 13. If any person— (a) furnishes, in relation to an application for the grant of a licence under section 3, pa rticulars which, to his knowledge, are false or in any material respect misleading; or 027e.fm Monday, March 27, 2006 2:20 PM

Private Agencies 11 (b) with a view to inducing the Commissioner of Police or the Chief Police Officer to grant a letter of approval, makes any statement or d eclaration which, to his knowledge, is false or incorr ect, either in whole or in part, or in any material respect misleading, he shall be guilty of an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding two t housand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding twelve months or to both. General penalty 14. Any person contravening the provi sions of this Act or any rules made thereunder shall be guilty of an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding ten thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a te rm not exceeding three years or to both. Seizable offence 15. An offence under this Act shall be a seizable offence within the meaning of the law rela ting to criminal procedure. Liability of director, etc. 16. (1) Where an offence under this Act has been committed by a body of persons corporate or unincorporate, any person who at the time of the commission of such offence was a director, manager, secretary or other simi lar officer of the body of persons or who was purporting to act in any such capacity, shall be deemed to be guilty of that offence unle ss he proves that the offence was committed without his c onsent or connivance, and that he exercised such diligence to prevent the commission of the offence as he ought to have exercised having re gard to the nature of his functions in that capacity and to all the circumstances. (2) Any person who would have been guilty of an offence if anything had been done or o mitted by him personally shall be guilty of such offence and liable to the same penalty if such thing had been done or omitted by his pa rtner, agent or servant in the course of partnership business or in the course of his employment, as the case may be, unl ess he proves that the offence 027e.fm Monday, March 27, 2006 2:20 PM

12 Laws of Malaysia ACT 27 was committed without his knowledg e or consent and that he took all reasonable precautions to pr event the doing or omission to do such thing: Provided that nothing herein shal l relieve the partner, agent or servant from liability to prosecution. Power of Minist er to delegate 17. (1) The Minister may in writing delegate all or any of his powers and duties under this Act or any rules made thereunder to any officer in the public service of the Fede ration and may at any time revoke such delegation. (2) No delegation under subsection (1) shall affect the exercise of such power or the performanc e of such duty by the Minister. Power to make rules 18. The Minister may make rules generally for the carrying out of the provisions of this Act and such rules may— (a) prescribe such fees or charges as may be necessary for the purposes of this Act; (b) provide for the informat ion and documents to be furnished for the purposes of applications for licence or letter of approval; (c) provide for the taking and recording of photographs of persons applying for licence or letter of approval; (d) prescribe the amount and form of deposit to be kept with the Accountant Ge neral under section 3; (e) prescribe the form of licen ce to be issued under section 3 and of identifica tion papers under section 7; (f) provide for approving the uniform, badge or emblem to be worn by an employ ee of a licensed private agency; (g) prescribe the register of employees to be kept by a licensed private agency and to provide for the inspection thereof; 027e.fm Monday, March 27, 2006 2:20 PM

Private Agencies 13 (h) prescribe that any act or omission in contravention of the provisions of any such rule shall be an offence; (i) provide for transitional provisions in relation to business of private agency which has been carried on before the coming into force of this Act; (j) provide generally for the pur poses of giving effect to this Act. Saving 19. (1) In so far as the provisions of this Act relate to a business or company, such provisions shall be construed as in addition or supplementary to, and not in de rogation from, the provisions of any written law relating to re gistration of businesses or to companies. (2) Nothing in this Act— (i) shall be construed as c onferring on a licensed private agency or the employees thereof any of the powers which by any written la w are conferred upon and exercisable by a police of ficer, customs officer, immigration officer, prison officer or any other public officer; (ii) shall authorize a licensed private agency or the employees thereof to do or to omit to do an act which act or omission is unlawful or illegal by virtue of any written law. Repeal 20. The Emergency (Essential Po wers) Ordinance No. 58 of 1970 is repealed. 027e.fm Monday, March 27, 2006 2:20 PM

14 Laws of Malaysia ACT 27 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 27 PRIVATE AGENCIES ACT 1971 LIST OF AMENDMENTS Amending law Short title In force from Act 160 Malaysian Currency (Ringgit) Act 1975 291975 027e.fm Monday, March 27, 2006 2:20 PM

15 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 27 PRIVATE AGENCIES ACT 1971 LIST OF SECTIONS AMENDED Section Amending authority In force from 13 Act 160 291975 14 Act 160 291975 027e.fm Monday, March 27, 2006 2:20 PM