Protection of New Plant Varieties LAWS OF MALAYSIA RepRint Act 634 Pr Otect IOn OF ne W PLAnt vAr Iet Ie S Act 2004 Incorporating all amendments up to 1 January 2006 published by the CommissioneR of law Revision, malaysia undeR the authoRity of the Revision of laws aCt 968 in CollaboRation with peRCetakan nasional malaysia bhd 2006

 Pr Otect IOn OF ne W PLAnt v Ar Iet Ie S Act 2004 d ate of Royal a ssent ... … … …  5 June 004 d ate of publication in the Gazette …  July 004

 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 634 Pr Otect IOn OF ne W PLA nt vAr Iet Ie S Act 2004 a RRan Gement of se Ctions Part i pRelimina Ry s ection  . s hort title and commencement  . i nterpretation Part ii plant va Rieties boa Rd  . e stablishment of the b oard 4. f unctions and powers of the b oard 5. m embership of the b oard 6. a lternate member 7. m eetings of the b oard 8. b oard may invite others to meetings 9. p rovision of facilities by m inistry  0. p lant v arieties f und  . e xpenditure to be charged on the f und Part iii pRo Cedu Re and C onditions fo R appli Cation of Re Gist Ration of new plant va Riety and GR ant of b Reede R’s R iGht  . a pplication for registration of new plant variety and grant of breeder’s right

4 Laws of Malaysia Act 634  . p ersons who may apply for registration of new plant variety and grant of breeder’s right  4. Conditions for registration of new plant variety and grant of breeder’s right  5. p rohibition of registration and grant of breeder’s right  6. d enomination of a new plant variety  7. f iling date  8. Right of priority  9. p reliminary examination  0. Request for substantive examination  . s ubstantive examination  . a pplication for registration of new plant variety and grant of breeder’s right to be published  . o pposition to application for registration of a new plant variety and grant of breeder’s right  4. Reply by applicant  5. f iling of documentary evidence in support  6. f ailure to file documentary evidence  7. d eposit of samples  8. Registration of new plant variety and grant of breeder’s right  9. Register Part iv RiGhts , limitations and duties of a holde R  0. s cope of breeder’s right  . l imitations of breeder’s right  . d uration of breeder’s right  . e xtension of duration of breeder’s right  4. a vailability of propagating material  5. d uties of a holder Part v Compulso Ry li Cen Ce  6. Compulsory licence s ection

5Protection of New Plant Varieties  7. s cope and conditi ons of compulsory licence  8. t ermination of compulsory licence Part vi invalidation , R evo Cation , su RRende R and assi Gnment o R t Ransmission  9. i nvalidation of breeder’s right 40. d ate and effect of invalidation 4. Revocation of breeder’s right 4. s urrender of breeder’s right 4. a ssignment or transmission of breeder’s right Part vii appeals 44. a ppeals 45. a ppeal b oard 46. d ecision of the m inister Part viii inf Rin Gement 47. a cts deemed to be infringement 48. i nfringement proceedings 49. i njunction and award of damages Part iX offen Ces 50. o ffence with respect to furnishing any false or misleading particular, etc. 5. o ffence with respect to contravention of terms and conditions and use of samples without permission 5. o ffence by body corporate s ection

6 Laws of Malaysia Act 634 Part X enfo RCement s ection 5. a uthorization of officers 54. p ower of enforcement 55. p ower of investigation 56. a dditional powers Part X i mis Cellaneous 57. i nstitution of prosecution 58. Jurisdiction to try offences 59. p rotection of officers 60. Regulations

7Protection of New Plant Varieties LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 634 *Pr Otect IOn OF ne W PLA nt vAr Iet Ie S A ct 2004 a n a ct to provide for the protection of the rights of breeders of new plant varieties, and the recognition and protection of contribution made by farmers, local communities and indigenous people towards the creation of new plant varieties; to encourage investment in and development of the breeding of new plant varieties in both public and private sectors; and to provide for related matters. [ ] en Acte D by the parliament of m alaysia as follows: Part i pRelimina Ry Short title and commencement 1. () t his a ct may be cited as the protection of n ew plant v arieties a ct 004. () t his a ct comes into operation on a date to be appointed by the m inister by notification in the Gazette. Interpretation 2. in this a ct, unless the context otherwise requires— “propagating material” means any material or plant, or any part of the plant, used for multiplication or reproduction; “breed” means to carry out activities conducive to the development of any plant variety; *NOTE—this act is not yet in force.

8 Laws of Malaysia Act 634 “prescribed” means prescribed by regu lations made under this a ct; “breeder’s right” means the right given on the registration of a new plant variety under this a ct; “m inistry” means the m inistry for the time being responsible for agriculture; “f und” means the plant v arieties f und established under section 0; “b oard” means the plant v arieties b oard established under section ; “compulsory licence” means the authorization by the b oard under section 6 to perform in m alaysia any act referred to in subsection 0() without the consent or agreement of the holder; “local community” means a group of individuals who have settled together and continuously inherit production processes and culture or a group of individuals settled together in a village or area and under an eco-cultural system; “discover and develop” means activities which lead to the desired phenotypic expression and affect the crop genotype and which may or may not entail deliberate or artificial creation of genetic variability; “m inister” means the m inister charged with the responsibility for plant varieties; “denomination” means the name or identification for a plant variety expressed in letters or a combination of letters and figures written in any language; “person” includes a body of persons, corporate or unincorporate; “authorized officer” means an officer authorized under subsection 5 ();

9Protection of New Plant Varieties “breeder” means a person who has bred or has discovered and developed any plant variety; “holder” means the holder of a breeder’s right; “licensee” means any person, agency or company to whom a compulsory licence is granted by the b oard under section 6; “e xaminer” means any person, government department or organization appointed by the b oard for the purpose of conducting a substantive examination under section ; “farmer” means any person who— (a) cultivates crops by cultivating the land himself; (b) cultivates crops by directly supervising the cultivation of land through any other person; or (c) conserves and preserves, severally or jointly, with any person any traditional variety of crops or adds value to the traditional variety through the selection and identification of their useful properties; “small farmer” means a farmer whose farming operations do not exceed the size of holding as prescribed by the m inister; “indigenous people” means persons who fall within the definition of the “aborigine” or “native” as defined respectively in Clause () of a rticle 60 and Clause (6) of a rticle 161a of the f ederal Constitution; “centre” means any place approved by the b oard for the deposit of any sample of seeds or propagating material under section 7; “samples” include seeds and any other propagating material which are capable of regeneration; “plant” means any living organism in the plant kingdom but excludes any micro-organism; “variety” means a plant grouping within a single botanical taxonomy of the lowest known rank— (a) which can be defined by the expression of the characteristics resulting from a given genotype or a combination of genotypes;

0 Laws of Malaysia Act 634 (b) which can be distinguished from any other plant grouping by the expression of at least one of such characteristics; and (c) which can be considered as a unit with regard to its suitability for being propagated unchanged, and includes propagating material and harvested material of the plant variety; “essentially derived plant variety” means a plant variety which— (a) is predominantly derived from the initial plant variety, or from a plant variety that is itself predominantly derived from the initial plant variety, while retaining the expression of the essential characteristics that result from the genotype or combination of genotypes of the initial plant variety; (b) is clearly distinguishable from the initial plant variety; and (c) except for the differences which result from the act of derivation, conforms to the initial plant variety in the expression of the essential characteristics that result from the genotype or combination of genotypes of the initial plant variety; “registered plant variety” means a plant variety which has been registered as a new plant variety and for which a breeder’s right has been granted under this a ct; “legal personal representative”, in relation to a deceased person, means a person to whom probate of the will of the deceased person or letters of administration of the estate of the deceased person have been granted whether in m alaysia or outside m alaysia. P art ii plant va Rieties boa Rd e stablishment of the Board 3. a board by the name of “ p lant v arieties b oard” is establishe d.

Protection of New Plant Varieties Functions and powers of the Board 4. () t he functions of the b oard shall be— (a) to perform the duties and functions and exercise the powers as may be provided for in this a ct; (b) to set appropriate systems for the examination of new plant varieties; (c) to consider and approve or reject applications for registration of new plant varieties and grant of breeder’s rights; (d) to impose fees or administrative charges to be paid under this a ct; (e) to set terms and conditions pertaining to the samples of registered plant varieties deposited at centres approved by the b oard under section 7; (f) to impose any terms and conditions for the research and experimental use or export of any registered plant variety developed from local genetic resources or by indigenous people; (g) to keep and maintain a record of other plant varieties which are not registered in the Register of n ew plant v arieties; (h) to administer and control the plant v arieties f und; (i) to appoint any person, government department or organization to be an e xaminer for the purposes of conducting a substantive examination under section ; (j) to revoke, surrender, assign or transmit any breeder’s right granted under this a ct; (k) to advise the m inister on all matters pertaining to this a ct; and (l) to do such other things as it considers fit to enable it to perform its functions effectively or that are incidental to the performance of its functions. () t he b oard shall have all such powers as may be necessary for or in connection with the performance of its functions under subsection ( ) or which are reasonably incidental to such performance.

 Laws of Malaysia Act 634 Membership of the Board 5. () t he b oard shall consist of the following members: (a) the d irector General of the d epartment of a griculture, peninsular m alaysia who shall be the Chairman; (b) the d irector General of the malaysian a gricultural Research and d evelopment institute; (c) the d irector General of the m alaysian Rubber b oard; (d) the d irector General of the m alaysian palm o il b oard; (e) the d irector General of the m alaysian Cocoa b oard; (f) the d irector General of the f orest Research institute of m alaysia; (g) the d irector of a griculture, s abah; (h) the d irector of a griculture, s arawak; (i) a representative from the m inistry of a griculture and a gro-based industry; (j) a representative from the m inistry of plantation industries and Commodities; (k) a representative from the m inistry of d omestic t rade and Consumer a ffairs; and (l) a representative from the m inistry of s cience, t echnology and innovations. () t he m inister shall appoint a senior officer of the d epartment of a griculture, peninsular m alaysia, to be the s ecretary to the b oard. Alternate member 6. () t he m inister may appoint a person to be an alternate member in respect of each person who is a member of the b oard under paragraphs 5(  )(a) to (h) to attend meetings of the b oard in place of the member when that member is for any reason unable to attend.

Protection of New Plant Varieties () w hen attending meetings of the b oard in place of a member, an alternate member shall for all purposes be deemed to be a member of the b oard. Meetings of the Board 7. () t he Chairman shall preside over every meeting of the b oard. () n otwithstanding subsection (), if for any reason the Chairman is unable to attend a meeting of the b oard, the members present shall elect from among themselves a member to preside over the meeting, and the member elected shall exercise the powers of the Chairman for the duration of that meeting and shall be deemed to be the Chairman for the purposes of that meeting. () t he quorum of the b oard shall be six. (4) i f on any question to be determined by the b oard there is an equality of votes, the Chairman shall have the casting vote. (5) t he b oard shall meet at such place and time as may be determined by the Chairman. Board may invite others to meetings 8. t he b oard may invite any other person to attend any meeting of the b oard for the purpose of advising the b oard on any matter under discussion, but that person shall have no right to vote at the meeting. Provision of facilities by Ministry 9. t he m inistry shall provide the b oard with the staff, funds and other facilities as are necessary to enable it to carry out its functions. Plant v arieties Fund 10. () a fund to be known as the “ plant v arieties f und” which shall be administered and controlled by the b oard is established.

4 Laws of Malaysia Act 634 () t he f und shall consist of — (a) such sums as may be provided from time to time by the Government or any s tate Government for the purposes of this a ct; and (b) moneys, fees and other charges received by the b oard under this a ct. e xpenditure to be charged on the Fund 11. t he f und shall be expended for the purpose of paying any expenditure incurred by the b oard for carrying into effect the provisions of this a ct. Part iii pRo Cedu Re and C onditions fo R appli Cation of Re Gist Ration of new plant va Riety and GR ant of b Reede R’s R iGht Application for registration of new plant variety and grant of breeder’s right 12. () a n application for the registration of a new plant variety and a grant of a breeder’s right shall be made to the b oard in the prescribed manner and shall— (a) specify the name, address, nationality and other particulars of the applicant; (b) specify the method by which the plant variety is developed; (c) be supported by documents and information relating to the characteristics of the plant variety which distinguish the plant variety from other plant varieties; (d) specify a plant variety denomination in accordance with section 6; (e) contain information relating to the source of the genetic material or the immediate parental lines of the plant variety;

5Protection of New Plant Varieties (f) be accompanied with the prior written consent of the authority representing the local community or the indigenous people in cases where the plant variety is developed from traditional varieties; (g) be supported by documents relating to the compliance of any law regulating access to genetic or biological resources; and (h) be supported by documents relating to the compliance of any law regulating activities involving genetically modified organisms in cases where the development of the plant variety involves genetic modification. () a n application under subsection ( ) shall be accompanied by the prescribed filing fee. Persons who may apply for registration of new plant variety and grant of breeder’s right 13. () a n application for the registration of a new plant variety and grant of a breeder’s right under section  shall only be made by— (a) a breeder; (b) the employer of the breeder; (c) the successor in title of the breeder; (d) a farmer or group of farmers, local community or indigenous people who have carried out the functions of a breeder; (e) any government or statutory body which has carried out the functions of a breeder. () i f the applicant’s ordinary residence or principal place of business is outside m alaysia or if the applicant is a group of farmers, the applicant shall appoint an agent who is a resident or who has a registered office in m alaysia upon whom notice or process relating to the application for registration and grant of a breeder’s right and other matters relating to such registration or breeder’s right may be served, and if the applicant fails to appoint such an agent, the b oard may refuse to proceed with the application until the agent has been appointed.

6 Laws of Malaysia Act 634 () i f the applicant is a local community or an indigenous people, the authority representing the local community or indigenous people shall be the agent for such applicant and notice or process relating to the application and other matters relating to the registration of a new plant variety or breeder’s right may be served on it. c onditions for registration of new plant variety and grant of breeder’s right 14. () s ubject to sections 5 and 6, a plant variety shall be registered as a new plant variety and granted a breeder’s right if the plant variety is new, distinct, uniform and stable. () n otwithstanding subsection ( ), where a plant variety is bred, or discovered and developed by a farmer, local community or indigenous people, the plant variety may be registered as a new plant variety and granted a breeder’s right if the plant variety is new, distinct and identifiable. () f or the purposes of subsections ( ) and ( )— (a) a plant variety is new if on the filing date of the application for registration and grant of a breeder’s right, the propagating or harvested material of the plant variety has not been sold or otherwise disposed of on a commercial basis by or with the consent of the breeder— (i) within m alaysia, earlier than one year before the filing date of the application for registration of a new plant variety and grant of a breeder’s right; and (ii) in other countries— (a ) earlier than six years before the filing date of the application for registration of a new plant variety and grant of a breeder’s right in respect of trees and vines; and (b ) earlier than four years before the filing date of the application for registration of a new plant variety and grant of a breeder’s right in respect of other p lant varieties;

7Protection of New Plant Varieties (b) a plant variety is distinct if on the filing date of the application for registration of a new plant variety and grant of a breeder’s right it is clearly distinguishable from any other plant variety, the existence of which is a matter of common knowledge; (c) a plant variety is uniform if, subject to the variation that may be expected from the particular features of its propagation, it is sufficiently uniform in its relevant characteristics; (d) a plant variety is stable if its relevant characteristics remain unchanged after repeated propagation or, in the case of a particular cycle of propagation, at the end of each particular cycle; (e) a plant variety is identifiable if— (i) it can be distinguished from any other plant grouping by the expression of one characteristic and that characteristic is identifiable within individual plants or within and across a group of plants; and (ii) such characteristics can be identified by any person skilled in the relevant art. Prohibition of registration and grant of breeder’s right 15. t he b oard shall not approve the registration of a new plant variety and grant of a breeder’s right to any person in respect of any plant variety— (a) which may affect public order or morality; or (b) where there is reasonable ground to believe that the cultivation, reproduction or any other use of that plant variety may produce a negative impact on the environment. Denomination of a new plant variety 16. () t he denomination of a plant variety the registration of which by the b oard is applied for— (a) shall be the generic designation of the plant variety;

8 Laws of Malaysia Act 634 (b) must enable the p lant variety to be identified; (c) shall not exclusively consist of numerals; and (d) shall be different from other plant variety denominations which identify an existing plant variety of the same plant species or a closely related species. () t he b oard may reject any denomination of a plant variety which— (a) does not satisfy the requirements of subsection ( ); (b) is contrary to public order or morality; (c) is not suitable for the identification of the plant variety; or (d) may cause confusion concerning the characteristics or the identity of the breeder of the plant variety. () w here a denomination of a plant variety is rejected by the b oard under subsection ( ), the b oard may require the applicant to furnish a new denomination within a specified time. (4) i f a new denomination as required under subsection ( ) is not furnished by the applicant within the time specified by the b oard, the application shall be deemed to be withdrawn and shall not be further proceeded with, but without prejudice to a fresh application being made by the applicant. (5) t he denomination of a registered plant variety shall be used when the plant variety is offered for sale on a commercial basis and if a trade mark, trade name or other similar indication is used together with the denomination, the denomination of that registered plant variety must remain easily recognizable. (6) n otwithstanding the expiration of the duration of the breeder’s right in respect of a plant variety, any person who offers for sale on a commercial basis any propagating material of a registered plant variety shall continue to use the denomination of that registered plant va riety.

9Protection of New Plant Varieties Filing date 17. t he filing date of an application for the registration of a new plant variety and grant of a breeder’s right shall be the date of receipt of the application by the b oard on condition that the application has complied with the requirements of section . r ight of priority 18. s ubject to section 7, where two or more applications for the registration of a new plant variety and grant of a breeder’s right are received by the b oard in respect of the same plant variety, priority shall be given to the application that is accorded an earlier filing date by the b oard. Preliminary examination 19. () w here an application for the registration of a new plant variety and grant of a breeder’s right has a filing date and the application is not withdrawn, the b oard shall examine the application and determine whether it complies with the requirements of sections 5 and 6. () i f the b oard, as a result of the examination under subsection (), finds that the requirements of sections 5 and 6 are not complied with, the b oard shall give an opportunity to the applicant to make any observation on such finding and to amend the application within the specified period so as to comply with those requirements, and if the applicant fails to do so, the b oard may refuse the application. () i f the b oard, as a result of the examination under subsection (), finds that the requirements of sections 5 and 6 have been complied with, the b oard shall notify the applicant in writing as soon as practicable. r equest for substantive examination 20. () i f an application for the registration of a new plant variety and grant of a breeder’s right has been examined under section 9 and the applicant has been notified under subsection 9(), the applicant shall file within the specified period a request for a substantive examination of the application.

0 Laws of Malaysia Act 634 () a request for a substantive exami nation under subsection ( )— (a) shall be made in the prescribed form; (b) shall be accompanied with the prescribed fee; and (c) if requested by the b oard, shall provide the specified quantities of propagating materials required for the purposes of the substantive examination. Substantive examination 21. () w here a request for substantive examination has been made under section 0, the b oard shall refer the application to an e xaminer who— (a) shall determine whether the application complies with the requirements of section 4; and (b) shall report his determination to the b oard. () i f the e xaminer reports in accordance with subsection ( ) that the requirements of section 4 are not complied with, the b oard shall give the applicant an opportunity to make observations on the report and to amend the application so as to comply with the requirement within the specified period. () i f the applicant fails to satisfy the b oard within the specified period that the requirements of section 4 are complied or to amend the application so as to comply with the requirements, the b oard shall reject the application for the registration of a plant variety and grant of a breeder’s right. (4) i f the e xaminer reports in accordance with subsection ( ) that the application as originally filed or as amended complies with the requirements of section 4, the e xaminer shall inform the b oard in writing of the findings of his examination. Application for registration of new plant variety and grant of breeder’s right to be published 22. if the b oard is satisfied that an application for the registration of a new plant variety and grant of a breeder’s right has complied with the requirements of this a ct, the b oard shall cause the applicati on to be published in the Gazette.

Protection of New Plant Varieties Opposition to application for registration of a new plant variety and grant of bree der’s right 23. () a ny interested person may, within three months from the date of publication of an application for the registration of a new plant variety and grant of a breeder’s right, give notice to the b oard and the applicant of his intention to oppose the application on any or any combination of the following grounds: (a) that the person opposing the application is entitled to the breeder’s right as against the applicant; (b) that the application for the registration of the new plant variety and grant of a breeder’s right does not comply with the requirements of this a ct; (c) that the application for the registration of the new plant variety and grant of a breeder’s right is contrary to public order or morality; (d) that the application for the registration of the new plant variety and grant of a breeder’s right may produce a negative impact on the environment. () t he notice shall be in writing in the manner to be specified by the b oard in writing and shall include a statement of the grounds of opposition. r eply by applicant 24. () t he applicant shall within thirty days after the receipt of the notice of opposition send a reply to the b oard and the opponent, in the manner to be specified by the b oard in writing, stating the grounds for his application for registration and grant of a breeder’s right. () i f the applicant fails to reply to the opposition within the period specified in subsection ( ) or, if the period has been extended by the b oard, within the additional period, the applicant shall be deemed to have abandoned his application for the registration of the new plant variety and grant of a breeder’s right. Filing of documentary evidence in support 25. () w here the applicant submits a reply under subsection 4(), the opponent and the applicant shall file documentary 

 Laws of Malaysia Act 634 evidence in support of the opposition or the application for the registration of the new plant variety and grant of a breeder’s right, as the case may be, with the b oard. () a ny documentary evidence to be filed by the opponent or the applicant under subsection ( ) shall be filed within the time and in the manner to be specified by the b oard in writing. () w here the applicant files the documentary evidence in support of his application, the opponent may be given an opportunity, within the time to be specified by the b oard in writing, to submit to the b oard and applicant evidence in reply to be adduced in the manner to be specified by the b oard in writing. (4) a fter considering the documentary evidence filed by the opponent and applicant, and after giving both parties an opportunity to make submissions, the b oard shall decide whether— (a) to reject the application for the registration of the new plant variety and grant of breeder’s right; or (b) to approve the application. (5) t he b oard shall, within two months after making a decision under subsection (4), give its grounds of decision in writing. Failure to file documentary evidence 26. () i f the applicant fails to file the documentary evidence as required under subsection 5(), the b oard may treat the application for the registration of the new plant variety and grant of a breeder’s right as abandoned. () w here the opponent fails to file the documentary evidence as required under subsection 5(), the b oard may treat the opposition as abandoned and shall approve the application for the registration of the new plant variety and grant of a breeder’s right. Deposit of samples 27. if an application for the registration of the new plant variety and grant of a breeder’s right has been approved by the b oard and the applicant has been notified in writing, the applicant shall, 

Protection of New Plant Varieties within the time specified by the b oard, deposit samples of the seed or any other propagating material of the plant variety in the quantity to be specified by the b oard at a centre approved by the b oard. r egistration of new plant variety and grant of breeder’s right 28. () i f the b oard is satisfied that the applicant has complied with requirements of section 7, the b oard shall register the new plant variety and grant the breeder’s right to the applicant and shall— (a) issue a certificate of registration of the new plant variety and grant of a breeder’s right to the applicant in the prescribed form; (b) record the denomination of the new plant variety and the registration of the new plant variety and grant of a breeder’s right in the Register of n ew plant v arieties; and (c) publish in the Gazette a reference to the registration of the new plant variety and grant of a breeder’s right. () t he contents of the certificate of a breeder’s right shall be prima facie evidence of the facts stated therein and the duration of the protection granted. r egister 29. () t he b oard shall keep and maintain a register called the Register of n ew plant v arieties. () t he Register shall be kept in such form and shall contain such particulars as may be specified by the b oard. () t he Register shall be available to the public for inspection subject to such conditions as the b oard deems fit. (4) a copy or extract of any entry in the Register duly certified by the s ecretary to the b oard shall be given to any person requiring the copy or extract upon payment of the prescribed fee.

4 Laws of Malaysia Act 634 Part iv RiGhts , limitations and duties of a holde R Scope of breeder’s right 30. () s ubject to section , a holder of a breeder’s right shall, in respect of the registered plant variety for which the right is granted, have the right to carry out all or any of the following acts on a commercial basis: (a) producing or reproducing; (b) conditioning for the purpose of propagation; (c) offering for sale; (d) marketing, inclusive of selling; (e) exporting; (f) importing; (g) stocking the material for the purposes mentioned in paragraphs (a) to (f). () t he breeder’s right shall also extend to— (a) any propagating material of the registered plant variety, harvested material of the registered plant variety and the entire or any part of a plant variety where the propagating material of that plant variety is obtained through unauthorized means from the registered plant variety; (b) plant varieties which are essentially derived from the registered plant variety, if the registered plant variety is not essentially derived from another plant variety; (c) plant varieties which are not clearly distinguishable from the registered plant variety; or (d) the production of other plant varieties which require the repeated use of the registered plant variety. () f or the purposes of paragraph 0()(a), “unauthorized” in relation to the propagating material means it is obtained without the consent or permission of the holder.

5Protection of New Plant Varieties Limitations of breeder’s right 31. () t he breeder’s right shall not extend to— (a) any act done privately on a non-commercial basis; (b) any act done for an experimental purpose; (c) any act done for the purpose of breeding other plant varieties and any act referred to in paragraphs 0()(a) to (g) in respect of such other plant varieties, except where such other plant varieties have been essentially derived from the registered plant variety; (d) any act of propagation by small farmers using the harvested material of the registered plant variety planted on their own holdings; (e) any exchange of reasonable amounts of propagating materials among small farmers; and (f) the sale of farm-saved seeds in situations where a small farmer cannot make use of the farm-saved seeds on his own holding due to natural disaster or emergency or any other factor beyond the control of the small farmer, if the amount sold is not more than what is required in his own holding. () t he breeder’s right granted under section 0 shall not apply to any material of the registered plant variety or any material derived from that material which has been sold within m alaysia on a commercial basis by the breeder or by any other person with his consent, unless such material is used for purposes involving— (a) the further propagation of the registered plant variety; or (b) the export of the material to a country which does not protect varieties of the plant genus or species to which the variety belongs and where the exported material is not for final consumption. Duration of breeder’s right 32. () t he breeder’s right to a registered plant variety shall take effect from the filing date of an application for the registration 

6 Laws of Malaysia Act 634 of the plant variety and grant of breeder’s right and shall subsist for a period of— (a) twenty years for a registered plant variety that is new, distinct, uniform and stable; or (b) fifteen years for a registered plant variety that is new, distinct and identifiable. () n otwithstanding the provisions of subsection ( ), where an application for the registration of a new plant variety and grant of breeder’s right is made in respect of trees or vines, and the application has complied with the provisions of this a ct, the b oard may register the plant variety and grant breeder’s right for a duration of twenty-five years. e xtension of duration of breeder’s right 33. () n otwithstanding the provisions of section , the b oard may extend the duration of a breeder’s right granted if the b oard is satisfied that such extension is desirable on the ground of national needs and interests. () a n application for the extension of the duration of a breeder’s right under subsection ( ) shall be made in writing to the b oard by the holder before the expiry of the duration of that breeder’s right. Availability of propagating material 34. t he holder shall ensure that the propagating material, which is of reasonable quality, of the registered plant variety is available in reasonable quantities within three years from the date of application for registration of the new plant variety and grant of a breeder’s right and at such reasonable price as may be determined by the b oard. Duties of a holder 35. () t he holder shall throughout the duration of the breeder’s right— (a) maintain at his expense samples which have been deposited at a centre approved by the b oard under section 7;

7Protection of New Plant Varieties (b) furnish the b oard with the propagating material of the registered plant variety which is capable of reproduction whenever requested by the b oard; (c) provide the b oard with facilities and information regarding the registered plant variety, without any charge, whenever requested by the b oard. () f or the purposes of paragraph 5( )(c), “facilities” includes the facilities for carrying out an inspection. Part v Compulso Ry li Cen Ce c ompulsory licence 36. () i f at any time after the expiration of three years from the grant of a breeder’s right the b oard is satisfied that— (a) any of the requirements of section 4 is not complied with and the needs of the farming community for the propagating material of the registered plant variety have not been met; or (b) an excessive proportion of the registered plant variety offered for sale is being imported, the b oard may grant a compulsory licence to any person, agency or company to undertake any of the acts mentioned in subsection 0() with regards to any material of the registered plant variety, whether with or without the authorization of the holder, notwithstanding that the holder may have granted his authorization to any other person. () b efore granting a compulsory licence the b oard shall give the holder a notice in writing of its intention to do so and giving him the right to make representations within a specified period. () t he b oard shall, upon considering the representations of the holder, or if no represen tation is received within the specified 

8 Laws of Malaysia Act 634 period, make a decision in respe ct of its intention and shall inform the holder of its decision within a reasonable period of time. (4) w here the b oard grants a compulsory licence under subsection ( ), the b oard shall determine a reasonable sum to be paid by the licensee to the holder as royalty. Scope and conditions of compulsory licence 37. u pon the granting of a compulsory licence to any person, agency or company, the b oard shall determine— (a) the scope of the compulsory licence and the right to carry out any of the acts referred to in section 0 except that such right shall not extend to the act of importation; (b) the duration of the compulsory licence; and (c) the terms and conditions of the compulsory licence. t ermination of compulsory licence 38. () t he b oard shall have the power to terminate or revoke any compulsory licence granted under section 6 if the b oard is satisfied that the licensee has breached any of the terms and conditions of the compulsory licence. () b efore terminating a compulsory licence, the b oard shall give the licensee a notice in writing requiring him to show cause within fourteen days from the date of receipt of the notice as to why the licence should not be terminated. () a fter the expiry of the period of fourteen days and after considering any representations made by the licensee, the b oard shall decide whether to terminate the licence or to take no further action. (4) t he b oard shall give the licensee a written notice of its decision under subsection ( ) as soon as practicable.

9Protection of New Plant Varieties Part vi invalidation , R evo Cation , su RRende R and assi Gnment o R t Ransmission Invalidation of breeder’s right 39. () a ny interested person may institute court proceedings against the holder to invalidate the registration of a new plant variety and grant of a breeder’s right. () t he court shall invalidate a breeder’s right if the person requesting the invalidation proves that— (a) the holder has furnished to the b oard false or misleading information or statement in respect of the application for registration of the new plant variety and grant of a breeder’s right; (b) the holder has not complied with the requirements of this a ct; or (c) the breeder’s right does not belong to the person to whom the breeder’s right was granted. () n otwithstanding subsection ( ), the court shall not invalidate the registration of a new plant variety and grant of a breeder’s right on the ground mentioned in paragraph 9( )(c) if the breeder’s right has been assigned to the person to whom the breeder’s right belongs. (4) i f the provisions of subsection ( ) apply to only some of the claims or some parts of a claim, such claims or parts of a claim may be declared invalid by the court and the invalidity of part of a claim shall be declared in the form of a corresponding limitation of the claim in question. Date and effect of invalidation 40. () w hen the decision of the court becomes final, the Registrar of the court shall notify the b oard and the b oard shall record the invalidation on the certificate of registration of the new plant variety and grant of a breeder’s right and in the Register of n ew plant v arieties and publish the fact of such invalidation in the Gazette.

0 Laws of Malaysia Act 634 () a ny invalidated certific ate of registration and grant of a breeder’s right or claim or part of a claim shall be regarded as null and void from the date of the grant of the breeder’s right. r evocation of breeder’s right 41. () t he b oard may revoke a breeder’s right granted to a holder if— (a) the holder fails to provide the b oard within the period specified by the b oard in writing with the information, facilities or propagating materials deemed necessary by the b oard for the maintenance of the samples deposited at a centre approved by the b oard when requested by the b oard; (b) the holder fails to pay any fees payable to the b oard to keep his breeder’s right in force; (c) the registered plant variety fails to demonstrate continuously the conditions for which the registration was made and breeder’s right was granted; (d) the holder contravenes any of the terms and conditions imposed on him as a holder; or (e) the holder uses or causes to be used any sample of a registered plant variety deposited at a center under section 7 without the prior written permission of the b oard. () b efore revoking a breeder’s right, the b oard shall give the holder a notice in writing requiring the holder to show cause within fourteen days as to why his breeder’s right should not be revoked. () a fter the expiry of the period of fourteen days and after considering any representations made by the holder, the b oard shall decide whether to revoke the protection or to take no further action. (4) t he b oard shall give the holder a written notice of its decision under subsection ( ).

Protection of New Plant Varieties (5) t he revocation o f a breeder’s right shall take effect— (a) if there is no appeal against the revocation, on the expiration of fourteen days from the date on which the notice of revocation is served on the holder; or (b) if there is an appeal against such revocation, when the revocation is confirmed by the m inister under section 46. (6) i f a breeder’s right is revoked under subsection ( ), the b oard shall— (a) direct the holder to return the certificate of registration of the new plant variety and grant of a breeder’s right to the b oard; and (b) have the power to authorize any person to undertake the production of the plant variety for reasons of public interest. (7) t he b oard shall record the revocation on the certificate of registration of the new plant variety and grant of a breeder’s right and in the Register of n ew plant v arieties and publish the fact of such revocation in the Gazette. Surrender of breeder’s right 42. () a holder may surrender his breeder’s right by submitting a written request to the b oard together with the certificate of registration of the new plant variety and grant of a breeder’s right. () t he surrender shall take effect on the date the b oard receives the certificate of registration and grant of a breeder’s right pursuant to the written request under subsection ( ). () t he b oard may impose any terms and conditions as it deems fit in respect of the surrender. (4) t he b oard shall record the surrender in the Register of n ew plant v arieties and publish the fact of such surrender in the Gazette.

 Laws of Malaysia Act 634 Assignment or trans mission of breeder’s right 43. () a breeder’s right or an application for the registration of a plant variety and grant of a breeder’s right may be assigned or transmitted with the approval of the b oard to— (a) the legal personal representative of the holder or the applicant for such registration and grant; or (b) any person entitled by operation of law to such assignment or transmission. () t he application for the assignment or transmission of a breeder’s right shall be— (a) made in the manner to be specified by the b oard in writing; and (b) accompanied with the prescribed fee. () t he b oard may approve the assignment or transmission of the breeder’s right if— (a) it is in writing signed by or on behalf of the contracting parties; or (b) the holder or the applicant for the registration of a new plant variety and grant of a breeder’s right dies or becomes incapacitated. (4) b efore granting its approval for the assignment or transmission of a breeder’s right, the b oard shall publish in the Gazette the details of the application and provide a reasonable period of time for any objection to the application for the assignment or transmission. (5) t he assignment or transmission of a breeder’s rights shall be recorded in the Register of n ew plant v arieties and the fact of such assignment or transmission shall be published in the Gazette.

Protection of New Plant Varieties Part vii appeals Appeals 44. a ny person who is aggrieved by the decision of the b oard with regard to— (a) the rejection of an application for the registration of a new plant variety and grant of a breeder’s right; (b) the grant of a compulsory licence under subsection 6(); (c) the royalty to be paid under subsection 6(4); (d) the termination of a compulsory licence under section 8; (e) the revocation of a breeder’s right; (f) the terms and conditions in respect of the surrender of a breeder’s right; or (g) the assignment or transmission of a breeder’s right, may, within thirty days after being informed in writing of the decision of the b oard appeal in writing against such decision to the m inister. Appeal Board 45. () u pon receipt of an appeal under section 44, the m inister shall refer the matter to an a ppeal b oard. () t he a ppeal b oard shall consist of the following members: (a) the s ecretary General of the m inistry of a griculture and a gro-based industry, who shall be the Chairman; (b) the s ecretary General of the ministry of s cience, t echnology and innovations; (c) the s ecretary General of the m inistry of plantation industries and Commodities;

4 Laws of Malaysia Act 634 (d) the permanent s ecretar y of the m inistry of a griculture and f ood industry of s arawak; and (e) the permanent s ecretary of the m inistry of a griculture, s abah. () a t the meetings of the a ppeal b oard, three members shall constitute a quorum. (4) i f for any reason the Chairman is unable to attend the meeting of the a ppeal b oard, the members present shall elect from among themselves a member to preside over the meeting and the member elected shall exercise the powers of the Chairman for the duration of that meeting and shall be deemed to be the Chairman for the purposes of that meeting. (5) t he a ppeal b oard may regulate its own procedure at the hearing of any such appeal and shall not be bound by any law or rule of practice relating to the admissibility of evidence. (6) t he a ppeal b oard shall consider the appeal and make recommendations to the m inister. Decision of the Minister 46. t he decision of the m inister shall be final and the person making the appeal shall be informed in writing of the decision. Part viii inf Rin Gement Acts deemed to be infringement 47. s ubject to the provisions of this a ct, an infringement of a breeder’s right shall consist of the performance of any of the acts referred to in section 0 in m alaysia by a person other than the holder without the authorization of the holder in relation to the registered plant variety fo r which a breeder’s right has been granted to the holder.

5Protection of New Plant Varieties Infringement pr oceedings 48. () t he holder shall have the right to institute court proceedings against any person who has infringed or is infringing his rights. () t he holder shall have the same right against any person who has performed acts which make it likely that an infringement will occur, which in this part is referred to as an “imminent infringement”. () t he proceedings in subsections ( ) and ( ) may not be instituted after five years from the date the act of infringement is discovered or could have been reasonably discovered by the holder. Injunction and award of damages 49. () i f the holder proves that an infringement has been committed or is being committed, the court may award damages and may grant an injunction to prevent further infringement and award any other legal remedy. () i f the holder proves that an imminent infringement has occurred, the court may grant an injunction to prevent the infringement and award any other legal remedy. Part iX offen Ces Offence with respect to furnishing any false or misleading particular, etc. 50. a ny person who furnishes or causes to be furnished to the b oard any false or misleading particular, information or statement in respect of an application for the registration of a new plant variety and grant of a breeder’s right commits an offence and shall on conviction be liable to a fine not exceeding twenty thousand ringgit or to impris onment for a term not exceeding two years or to both.

6 Laws of Malaysia Act 634 Offence with respect to contra vention of terms and conditions and use of samples without permission 51. a ny person who— (a) contravenes any of the terms and conditions imposed on him as a holder or as a licensee; or (b) uses or causes to be used without the prior written permission of the b oard any sample of a registered plant variety deposited at any centre under section 7, commits an offence and shall on conviction be liable to a fine not exceeding five thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding six months or to both. Offence by body corporate 52. w here a body corporate commits an offence under this a ct or any regulations made under this a ct, any person who at the time of the commission of the offence was a director, manager, secretary or other similar officer of such body corporate or was purporting to act in any such capacity, or was in any manner or to any extent responsible for the management of any of the affairs of the body corporate, or was assisting in its management— (a) may be charged and tried jointly in the same proceedings with the body corporate; and (b) where the body corporate is found guilty of the offence, shall be deemed to be guilty of that offence unless, having regard to the nature of his functions in that capacity and to all circumstances, he proves— (i) that the offence was committed without his knowledge, consent or connivance; and (ii) that he took all reasonable precautions and had exercised all due diligence to prevent the commission of the offence.

7Protection of New Plant Varieties Part X enfo RCement Authorization of officers 53. () t he m inister may authorize in writing any officer in the m inistry to exercise the powers under this part. () a n officer authorized under subsection ( ) shall be deemed to be a public servant within the meaning of the penal Code [Act 574 ]. Power of enforcement 54. () a ny authorized officer or a police officer not below the rank of inspector may exercise all the powers of enforcement under this a ct. () e very authorized officer or police officer, when acting against any person under this a ct, shall declare his office and shall on demand produce to the person against whom he is acting such authority card as the m inister may direct to be carried by such authorized officer or as the inspector General of police may direct to be carried by such police officer. Power of investigation 55. a n authorized officer shall have all the powers necessary to carry out an inspection and to investigate the commission of any offence under this a ct. Additional powers 56. a ny authorized officer or police officer not below the rank of inspector may, for the purpose of enforcing this a ct, do all or any of the following: (a) enter, inspect and examine with or without notice any premises or farm at any reasonable hour in relation to any offence reasona bly suspected to have been committed under this a ct;

8 Laws of Malaysia Act 634 (b) require the production of any record, book, accounts, computerized data or documents kept by the holder and inspect, examine and copy any of them; (c) require the production of any identification document from any person in relation to any case or offence under this a ct; (d) make such inquiry as may be necessary to ascertain whether the provisions of this a ct have been complied with. Part X i mis Cellaneous Institution of prosecution 57. n o prosecution for or in relation to any offence under this a ct shall be instituted except by or with the written consent of the public prosecutor. Jurisdiction to try offences 58. n otwithstanding any written law to the contrary, a Court of a m agistrate of the f irst Class shall have jurisdiction to try any offence under this a ct and to impose the full punishment for any such offence. Protection of officers 59. n o action shall be brought, instituted or maintained in any court against— (a) any member of the a ppeal b oard; (b) any member of the b oard; (c) any authorized officer; and (d) any e xaminer, for any act or omission done in good faith in the performance of their functions and the exercise of their powers under this a ct.

9Protection of New Plant Varieties r egulations 60. () t he m inister may make regulations for the purpose of carrying into effect the provisions of this a ct. () w ithout prejudice to the generality of subsection ( ), regulations may be made— (a) to regulate the procedure for an application for the registration of a new plant variety and grant of a breeder’s right and the determination of questions in connection with such application, registration and grant, and in connection with the extension of the duration of such registration and grant, and the revocation, surrender, assignment or transmission of a breeder’s right; (b) prescribing the fees and charges payable under this a ct and the manner for collecting and dealing with such fees and charges; (c) prescribing forms, book, registers, documents and other matters to be used under this a ct and the information to be furnished for any of the purposes of this a ct; (d) prescribing the size of a holding for the purposes of the definition of “small farmer”; and (e) providing generally for any other matter for the proper and effective implementation of this a ct.

40 Laws of Malaysia Act 634 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 634 Pr Otect IOn OF ne W PLA nt vAr Iet Ie S Act 2004 list of amendments a mending law s hort title in force from – nil –

4Protection of New Plant Varieties LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 634 Pr Otect IOn OF ne W PLA nt vAr Iet Ie S Act 2004 list of se Ctions amended s ection a mending authority in force from – nil –