Widows and Orphans Pension 1 LAWS OF MALAYSIA REPRINT Act 681 WIDOWS AND ORPHANS PENSION ACT 1915 As at 1 November 2017 PUBLISHED BY THE COMMISSIONER OF LAW REVISION, MALAYSIA UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF THE REVISION OF LAWS ACT 1968 2017

Laws of Malaysia 2 Act 681 WIDOWS AND ORPHANS PENSION ACT 1915 Revised up to … … … … … 30 November 2007 Date of publication in the Gazette of this revised version ... ... … … … 6 December 2007 Date appointed for coming into force of this revised version pursuant to paragraph 6(1) (xxiii) of the Revision of Laws Act 1968 [ Act 1 ] … … … … 30 November 2007 First enacted in 1915 as F.M.S. Cap. 26

Widows and Orphans Pension 3 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 681 WIDOWS AND ORPHANS PENSION ACT 1915 ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS Section 1. Short title 2. Interpretation 3. Pensions to be a charge on Federal Consolidated Fund 4. Abatement from salaries to be made 5. Period for which abatement shall be made 5a . Abatement during period of enemy occupation 5b . Contributor retiring under certain laws 5c . ( Omitted ) 5d . Exercise of option 5e . Contributors who opted to cease to contribute under subsection 5c (3) 6. Contributions where official income is reduced 7. Contributor retiring on account of ill-health 8. Contributor retired on pension 9. Interest of contributors retiring without pension 10. Refund of contribution to bachelor or widower without children of a pensionable age 11. Provisions consequent upon an officer being removed 12. Contributor transferred to other employment in country where the law provides for granting pensions to widows and children 12a . Contributors to Colonial Superannuation Scheme 13. Contributors transferred from Straits Settlements 14. Arrears of contribution under the law of the Straits Settlements 15. Officers contributing to approved schemes 16. Rules for payment when a contributor on leave of absence or pensioner is paid by the Crown Agents 17. Register of contributors to be kept

Laws of Malaysia 4 Act 681 18. Penalty for non-compliance with foregoing 19. Calculation of future and existing pensions 20. (Deleted ) 21. When widow not entitled to pension 22. Pension when to commence 23. When widow’s pension ceases 23a . Dissolution of marriage 24. When children’s pensions cease 25. Widow but no child by previous marriage 26. Child by one marriage 27. Children by several marriages 28. Widow, and child by previous marriage 29. Widow, and children by several marriages 30. Interest of children when widow’s interest ceases 31. Interest of other children when child’s interest ceases 32. Interest of others when interest of all children of a marriage ceases 33. Children share equally 33a . Adopted children 34. Proof to be produced before payment of pension 35. Discretion as to payment of minor’s pension 36. Pension not assignable 37. Questions and disputes to be decided by Chief Secretary to the Government 38. Rules First s chedule s econd s chedule a ppendix Section

Widows and Orphans Pension 5 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 681 WIDOWS AND ORPHANS PENSION ACT 1915 An Act to provide for the granting of pensions to widows and orphans of public servants and for the management and control of such pensions. [ 2 July 1915, F .M.S. Ord. No. 75 of 1950 ] Short title 1. This Act may be cited as the *Widows and Orphans Pension Act. Interpretation 2. In this Act— “contributor” means and includes every person from whose salary or pension deductions are made in accordance with this Act; “entitled officer” means an entitled officer as defined in any of the laws specified in the first column of the Second Schedule who retires under the provisions of such law specified in the second column of the said Schedule; “of a pensionable age” as applied to children means in the case of a male that he is under the age of twenty-one years and in the case of a female that she is under the age of twenty-one years and has not been married; *NOTE—This Act applies to Peninsular Malaysia only.

Laws of Malaysia 6 Act 681 *“public servant” means a person holding a pensionable office, an officer serving on probation or on agreement in a pensionable office in the service of the Government or a depositor in the Federated Malay States Railways Provident Fund who has completed 10 years’ satisfactory service with the Government, but does not include any person whose salary is less than twenty ringgit a month or who is not restricted by law to one wife at a time or who is appointed to a pensionable office on probation or on agreement in a pensionable office or becomes holder of a pensionable office on or after 15 June 1970; “the Directors” means such persons not less than three in number as may be appointed from time to time by the Yang di- Pertuan Agong to carry out the provisions of this Act subject to the control of and to Rules for their guidance made by the Yang di-Pertuan Agong; “the Government” means the Government of the Federation or the Government of any State or Settlement and in respect of the period from 1 April 1946 to 31 January 1948, means the Government of the Malayan Union. Pensions to be a charge on Federal Consolidated Fund 3. (1) Pensions which would have been payable under any former enactment relating to Widows and Orphans Pensions and all future pensions shall after the commencement of this Act be paid under the directions of the Chief Secretary to the Government and are hereby made charges upon the Federal Consolidated Fund. (2) All future contributions and other revenues receivable from public officers under this Act shall be carried to the credit of the Federal Consolidated Fund. Abatement from salaries to be made 4. (1) A monthly abatement shall be made from the **salary or pension of every public servant, and all such abatements shall be paid to the credit of the Federal Consolidated Fund: Provided that, where an officer is serving on probation or on agreement in a pensionable office, he may, within six months *NOTE—Definition shall be read subject to subsections 2(2) and (3) of Act A24. **NOTE—Definition of “salary”: section 12 of F.M. Ord. No. 75 of 1950.

Widows and Orphans Pension 7 from the date of the commencement of such service or within such extended period as the Directors may in any particular case allow, by giving notice in writing to the Directors of his desire to do so, elect not to become or to cease to be a contributor, as the case may be, and in such case this Act shall cease to apply to such officer, and there shall be repayable to him the total amount of any contributions which he may have made. (2) The abatement referred to in subsection (1) shall be calculated at the rate of four per centum of the monthly salary of the contributor: Provided that unless and until notice has been given as provided in subsection 6(1), the abatement to be made in the case of a contributor who has retired on pension or who has suffered reduction of salary shall be calculated upon the salary drawn by such contributor immediately prior to such retirement or reduction, as the case may be. (3) In the case of an officer holding or having held a post, the salary of which is on a sterling basis, the abatement shall be made in ringgit at four per centum of such salary converted into ringgit Malaysia at the rate from time to time fixed by the Federal Government for the payment of such salaries or pensions. (4) Contributions shall continue to be made on the full salary whenever an officer is on leave of absence with half salary or without salary. (5) An officer who held a non-pensionable office in the service of the Government and had been appointed to a pensionable office before 15 June 1970, shall be deemed to have entered into the service of the Government on the date of such appointment: Provided that the Minister may from time to time by notification in the Gazette declare any officer, or category or categories of officers to be excluded from this subsection. (6) A depositor in the Federated Malay States Railways Provident Fund shall be deemed to enter the service of the Government on the date upon which he completes 10 years satisfactory service.

Laws of Malaysia 8 Act 681 (7) On the retirement of a public servant who is a depositor in the Federated Malay States Railways Provident Fund the abatements to be made under this Act shall be calculated upon the sum to which he would have been entitled as pension if he had been eligible for a pension under the *Pensions Enactment [Cap. 23 ]. Period for which abatement shall be made 5. (1) Subject to this Act such abatement shall continue to be made until the contributor attains the age of sixty-five years, or until such abatement has been made for thirty-five successive years counting from the first abatement from his original salary, in either of which events such abatement shall cease. (2) The abatement referred to in subsection (1) shall be calculated on the salary of the permanent appointment of the contributor irrespective of any temporary increment of salary which he may derive from an acting appointment and irrespective of personel and other allowances, except pensionable personal allowances which shall be deemed to be part of the contributor’s salary for the purpose of calculating such abatement. Abatement during period of enemy occupation **5a . (1) Notwithstanding anything contained in the foregoing provisions of this Act, where a public servant was not, during the period of enemy occupation and during any period thereafter until his re-appointment in the service of the Government, drawing the full salary or any part of his salary, abatements calculated on the salary for which that public servant would have been eligible in accordance with his salary scheme were it not for the enemy occupation shall be deemed to have been made, during such period or periods, under and in accordance with this Act: Provided that for the purpose of any repayment to contributors as provided in sections 10, 11 and paragraph 12(2) (b) only the contributions actually made shall be taken into account. *NOTE—This Act has been replaced vide Pensions Act 1980 [ Act 227 ]. **NOTE—In force on 011955.

Widows and Orphans Pension 9 *(2) In this section “period of enemy occupation” means the period commencing on 8 December 1941 and continuing to 31 August 1945. Contributor retiring under certain laws 5b . (1) Every contributor being married or a widower with children of a pensionable age, who is an entitled officer shall, at his option exercisable as hereinafter provided, be entitled either— (a) to cease to contribute, in which case his widow or children, as the case may be, shall be entitled on his death to a pension computed on the basis of the interest acquired by such contributor at the date of his ceasing to contribute in accordance with the Rules and Table contained in the First Schedule; (b) to make a single contribution calculated in accordance with the Rules and Tables contained in the First Schedule, in which case his widow or children, as the case may be, shall be entitled on his death to a pension computed on the basis of the contributor having contributed for the remainder of the period of thirty-five years or until he had attained the age of sixty-five years or, in the event of the contributor dying before the expiration of the said period or attaining the said age, until the date of his death; or (c) after furnishing such proof as the Directors may require that his wife (if any) is in a normal state of health, to cease to contribute and be paid a sum calculated in accordance with the Rules and Tables contained in the First Schedule in which case the rights of the contributor and of his widow and children shall cease. (2) The option shall be exercisable before the expiration of a period of six months from the date of the retirement of the contributor or before 31 December 1958, whichever shall be the later. (3) The exercise by a contributor of the option shall be irrevocable. *NOTE—In force on 111950.

Laws of Malaysia 10 Act 681 (4) The option shall be exercisable by written notification addressed to the Yang di-Pertuan Agong. Exercise of option *5c . (Omitted ). Exercise of option 5d . (1) Every contributor shall at his option exercisable as hereinafter provided, be entitled either to cease to contribute or to continue to contribute in accordance with this Act. (2) If a contributor who on 15 June 1970 was a bachelor, opts to cease to contribute under subsection (1), any rights accrued under this Act shall cease and there shall be payable to him, a sum representing the amount of contributions which he has made up to that date together with compound interest thereon calculated with annual rests at the rate of two and one-half per centum and the amount of any contributions which he may have made after that date without any interest thereon. (3) If a contributor who on 15 June 1970 was a widower without children of a pensionable age, opts to cease to contribute under subsection (1), any right accrued under this Act shall cease and there shall be payable to him, a sum representing the amount of contributions which he has made up to that date since the death of his last wife or the ceasing to be of a pensionable age of his last child, whichever event shall last have happened together with compound interest thereon calculated with annual rests at the rate of two and one-half per centum and the amount of any contributions which he may have made after that date without any interest thereon. (4) If a contributor who on 15 June 1970 was married or was a widower with children of a pensionable age, opts to cease to contribute under subsection (1), the rights of such contributor and of his widow and children under this Act shall cease and there shall be payable to him a sum representing an amount computed on the *NOTE —This section inserted vide Emergency (Essential Powers) Ordinance No. 33, 1970 [P .U. (A) 184/1970 ] was later repealed vide Widows and Orphans Pension (Amendment) Act 1972 [ Act A96 ].

Widows and Orphans Pension 11 basis of the interest acquired by him at that date in accordance with Tables D, E and F contained in the First Schedule and the amount of any contributions which he may have made after that date without any interest thereon. (5) (a) The option shall be exercisable by written notification addressed to the Directors before a date to be appointed by the Minister by notification in the *Gazette . Different dates may be appointed for contributors who are still in the service of the Government and contributors who have retired from the service of the Government: Provided that the Directors may, if they think proper in the circumstances, accept an option received after the date appointed under this subsection. (b) The exercise by a contributor of the option shall be irrevocable. (6) If a contributor opts to cease to contribute under subsection (1), his contribution shall cease to be made on the first day of the second month following the month in which the written notification under subsection (5) was received by the Directors. (7) If a contributor does not exercise the option within the period provided under subsection (5), he shall be deemed to have opted to continue to contribute in accordance with this Act. Contributors who opted to cease to contribute under subsection 5c(3) 5e . (1) Where a contributor who on 15 June 1970 was married or was a widower with children of pensionable age, opted to cease to contribute in accordance with subsection 5c (3) (as inserted by the **Emergency (Essential Powers) Ordinance No. 33, 1970), there shall be payable— (a) to him at his option exercisable as hereinafter provided; or (b) to his legal representative if he dies without a widow or children before the appointed date, *NOTE— see P.U. (B) 194/1972. **NOTE—The Ordinance is repealed by Act A96.

Laws of Malaysia 12 Act 681 a sum computed on the basis of the interest acquired by him at that date in accordance with Tables D, E and F contained in the First Schedule, and the amount of any contributions which he may have made after that date without any interest thereon. (2) (a) Such contributor may before the appointed date notify the Directors in writing that he opts to accept payment under subsection (1), in which case the rights of such contributor and of his widow and children shall cease: Provided that the Directors may, if they think proper in the circumstances, accept an option received after the appointed date. (b) The exercise by a contributor of the option shall be irrevocable. (3) If such contributor does not exercise the option as provided under subsection (2), no payment under subsection (1) shall be made, and his widow or children, as the case may be, shall be entitled on his death to a pension computed on the basis of the interest acquired by him at the date of his ceasing to contribute in accordance with the Rules and Tables contained in the First Schedule. (4) No payment under subsection (1) shall be made if the contributor dies before the appointed date leaving a widow or a child or children of pensionable age. (5) In this section, “appointed date” means the date appointed under subsection 5d (5). Contributions where official income is reduced 6. (1) If the official income of a contributor becomes reduced, whether by reduction of salary or by his retirement on a pension, he may, upon giving notice in writing to the Directors of his desire to do so, contribute for the remainder of the thirty-five years or until he attains the age of sixty five, upon the actual amount of his salary or pension, as the case may be, in which case his widow or children shall, subject as hereinafter provided, be entitled to pension accordingly; or, if such reduction of official income is due to retirement on a pension on account of ill health, he may, upon giving notice in writing of his desire to do so, cease to contribute.

Widows and Orphans Pension 13 (2) If a contributor who has retired on a pension on account of ill-health and has given notice as provided in subsection (1) that he desires to contribute on the actual amount of his pension dies within three years of the date of his retirement, his widow or children shall be entitled to a pension computed on the basis of the interest acquired by such contributor at the date of his retirement in accordance with the Rules and Tables contained in the First Schedule. (3) If a contributor who has retired on pension on account of ill-health and has given notice as provided in subsection (1) that he desires to cease to contribute dies within two years of the date of his retirement, his widow or children shall be entitled to a pension computed on the basis of the interest acquired by such contributor at the date of his retirement in accordance with the Rules and Tables contained in the First Schedule. (4) Any notice given by a contributor under subsection (1) shall be irrevocable, except in the case of an entitled officer who, having retired before 31 August 1957, exercises his option under section 5b before 31 December 1957. (5) Where such reduction of official income is due to retirement on a pension and the contributor draws a pension not only from the Federation but also from the Colony of the Straits Settlements, or from any Malay State under the protection of the British Government, he shall, if he elects to contribute on his pension in accordance with subsection (1), contribute on the aggregate amount of the pensions granted to him by the Federation and by the said Colony, and by any such Malay State and such aggregate amount shall for the purposes of this section and subject to subsection (7) hereof be deemed to be his reduced official income. (6) Where a contributor only contributes on his reduced official income, any pension to his widow or children shall be diminished in the same proportion as it would have been increased had his rate of contribution been raised instead of being lowered. (7) The pension of a contributor to whom a gratuity and reduced pension have been granted shall, for the purpose of calculating the amount of the abatements to be made under this section, be deemed to be the equivalent of four-thirds of such reduced pension.

Laws of Malaysia 14 Act 681 (8) For the purposes of this section a contributor to the Federated Malay States Railways Provident Fund who retires under the provisions of the Federated Malay States Railways Provident Fund Enactment 1936 [ En. 21 of 1936 ], shall be deemed to have retired on pension and to be in receipt of a reduced official income. Contributor retiring on account of ill-health 7. If a contributor who holds a pensionable office retires on account of ill-health before he is entitled to a pension and dies within two years of the date of his retirement, his widow or children shall be entitled to a pension computed on the basis of the interest acquired by such contributor at the date of his retirement in accordance with the Rules and Tables contained in the First Schedule. Contributor retired on pension 8. If a contributor who has retired on a pension subsequently ceases to have a wife or child who would on his death be entitled to pension, he shall thereupon cease to contribute and his rights under this Act shall cease. Interest of contributors retiring without pension 9. (1) A married contributor or a contributor who is a widower with children of a pensionable age who retires from the service of the Government before he is entitled to a pension may continue to contribute from and after the date of his ceasing to draw salary on the salary which he was receiving from the Government at such date and at the same rate and subject to the same terms and conditions as if he had continued in the service of the Government: Provided that as soon as such contributor ceases to have a wife or child who would on his death be entitled to pension he shall forthwith cease to contribute and his rights under this Act shall cease. (2) In the event of any such contributor failing to contribute, or in the event of any contribution due from him being in arrear for six months, it shall be considered that he has ceased to be a contributor and his widow or children, as the case may be, shall 

Widows and Orphans Pension 15 be entitled on his death to a pension computed only on the basis of the interest acquired by such contributor at the date of his ceasing to contribute in accordance with the Rules and Tables contained in the First Schedule. Refund of contribution to bachelor or widower without children of a pensionable age 10. (1) If a contributor being a bachelor or a widower without children of a pensionable age retires from the service of the Government, he shall cease to contribute and his rights under this Act shall cease, except as provided in subsection (2). (2) If a contributor being a bachelor or a widower without children of a pensionable age dies while in the service of the Government or retires from the service of the Government there shall be payable to him or to his legal representative— (a) if such contributor is a bachelor, the total amount of his contributions together with compound interest thereon calculated with annual rests at the rate of two and one- half per centum; and (b) if such contributor is a widower without children of a pensionable age, the total amount of the contributions which he has paid since the death of his last wife or the ceasing to be of a pensionable age of his last child, whichever event shall last have happened together with compound interest thereon calculated with annual rests at the rate of two and one-half per centum. Provisions consequent upon an officer being removed 11. A contributor who is removed from the service of the Government shall cease to contribute under this Act, and (a) where such contributor is a bachelor, the total amount of his contributions under this Act shall be repaid to him together with compound interest thereon calculated with annual rests at the rate of two and one-half per centum subject to the deduction of any sums due by him to the Government;

Laws of Malaysia 16 Act 681 (b) where such contributor is a widower without children of a pensionable age, the total amount of the contributions which he has paid since the death of his last wife or the ceasing to be of a pensionable age of his last child, whichever event shall have last happened, shall be repaid to him together with compound interest thereon calculated with annual rests at the rate of two and one- half per centum subject to the deduction of any sums due by him to the Government; (c) where such contributor is married or is a widower with children of a pensionable age, his widow or children, as the case may be, shall be entitled to a pension computed on the basis of the interest acquired by such contributor at the date of the cessation of his contributions in accordance with the Rules and Tables contained in the First Schedule. Contributor transferred to other employment in country where the law provides for granting pensions to widows and children 12. (1) When a contributor is transferred from the service of the Government to other employment under the Government of a British Dominion, Colony, Protected State or Protectorate or a territory in respect of which a mandate, or trusteeship on behalf of the League of Nations or the United Nations is being exercised by His Majesty, where provision is made by law for the granting of pensions to widows and children of persons employed in its service, he shall cease to contribute under this Act so soon as he shall become a contributor under that law, but so that nevertheless— (a) his widow or children, as the case may be, shall be entitled on his death to a pension computed on the basis of the pension rights acquired by such contributor at the date of the cessation of his contributions in accordance with the Rules and Tables contained in the First Schedule; (b) if he retires or is removed from the service of such Dominion, Colony, Protected State, Protectorate or territory or dies while in the service thereof and is at the time of such retirement, removal, or death a widower without children of a pensionable age or a bachelor, section 10 or 11, as the case may be, shall be deemed to apply.

Widows and Orphans Pension 17 (2) (a) When a contributor is transferred to such Dominion, Colony, Protected State, Protectorate or territory (other than North Borneo) where no provision has been made by law for granting such pensions as aforesaid, such contributor shall— (i) if married or a widower having children of a pensionable age be entitled, on giving notice in writing to the Directors within one month after his transfer from the service of the Government of his desire to do so, to continue to be a contributor on the salary of the last substantive appointment held by him in the Federation at the date of his transfer, at the same rate and subject to the same terms and conditions as if he had continued in the service of the Government; (ii) if then a widower without children of a pensionable age or a bachelor be entitled to elect, on giving the notice required to be given under subparagraph (i), to continue to contribute as is provided in the said paragraph or to be paid the total amount without interest of his contributions. (b) In the event of the contributions of any such contributor being in arrear for six months it shall be considered that he has ceased to be a contributor and his widow or his widow and children, as the case may be, shall be entitled on his death to a pension computed only on the basis of the pension rights acquired by such contributor at the date of his ceasing to contribute in accordance with the Rules and Tables contained in the First Schedule. (c) When any such contributor, being a widower without children of a pensionable age or a bachelor, has elected to continue to contribute, then if he retires or is removed from the service of such Dominion, Colony, Protected State, Protectorate or territory or dies while in the service thereof and is at the time of such retirement, removal, or death a widower without children of a pensionable age or a bachelor, section 10 or 11, as the case may be, shall be deemed to apply.

Laws of Malaysia 18 Act 681 (d) When any such contributor, being a widower without children of a pensionable age or a bachelor, has elected to be paid the total amount without interest of his contributions, then on such payment being made his rights and liabilities under this Act shall cease. (3) (a) When a contributor, whether married or a bachelor, is transferred to North Borneo, such contributor shall continue to be a contributor under this Act on the salary which for the time being he may be entitled to receive in respect of any office held by him in the service of North Borneo at the same rate and subject to the same terms and conditions as if he had continued in the service of the Government. (b) In the event of the contributions of such contributor to the Government being in arrear, such arrears together with interest thereon at the rate of six per cent, shall be recoverable from such contributor as a debt due to the Government or shall be deducted from any salary which may subsequently be payable to him by the Government. (4) Where a contributor either elects or is bound under subsection (2) or (3) to continue his contribution after being transferred as aforesaid, he may cease to contribute under this Act so soon as the Government of the Dominion, Colony, Protected State, Protectorate or territory in whose service he shall be employed shall have made provision by law for granting pensions to widows and children of persons employed in its service and he shall have become a contributor under that law; but so that nevertheless, in the event of his so electing to cease contributing— (a) his widow or children, as the case may be, shall be entitled on his death to a pension computed on the basis of the pension rights acquired by such contributor at the date of his so ceasing to contribute in accordance with the Rules and Tables contained in the First Schedule; (b) if he retires or is removed from the service of such Dominion, Colony, Protected State, Protectorate or territory or dies while in the service thereof and is at the time of such retirement, removal, or death a widower without children of a pensionable age or a bachelor, section 10 or 11, as the case may be, shall be deemed to apply. (5) As soon as provision is made by the law of North Borneo for granting pensions to widows and children of persons employed in the service of that Colony, subsection (1) shall apply.

Widows and Orphans Pension 19 Contributors to Colonial Superannuation Scheme 12a . (1) If any contributor, or any officer who would, but for this section, be liable to contribute under this Act, becomes a contributor to the Colonial Superannuation Scheme in respect of dependants’ benefits he shall, on written application made within three months after the date on which he first became a contributor under the said Scheme, or within such extended period as the Directors may, in any particular case, allow, be exempted by the Directors from contributing under this Act, so long as he continues to contribute to the said Scheme. (2) An exemption granted under subsection (1) shall take effect from the date upon which such contributor or officer first became a contributor to the said Scheme, and there shall be repayable to him the total amount of any contributions which he may have made under this Act since the said date. (3) Subsection 12(1) shall apply to a contributor who has been exempted under subsection (1) as if he had been transferred to other employment within the meaning of that subsection. (4) An officer who has contributed to the Colonial Superannuation Scheme for the full period required by the said Scheme and has by such contributions provided a pension for his widow or children, shall be deemed for the purposes of subsection (1) to be still contributing to such scheme. *Contributors transferred from Straits Settlements 13. When an officer in the service of the Colony of the Straits Settlements who is a contributor under the Widows’ and Orphans’ Pension Ordinance [ S.S. Cap. 79 ] of the said Colony has been transferred to the service of the Government, he shall forthwith become a contributor under this Act on the full salary to which he shall from time to time be entitled in the service of such Government: Provided that the period during which he has contributed under the Widows’ and Orphans’ Pension Ordinance of the said Colony shall be taken into account in reckoning the period of thirty-five years referred to in section 5. *NOTE— See section 11 of F.M. Ord. No. 75 of 1950.

Laws of Malaysia 20 Act 681 Arrears of contribution under the law of the Straits Settlements 14. When an officer in the service of the Colony of the Straits Settlements who is a contributor under the Widows’ and Orphans’ Pension Ordinance of the said Colony has been transferred to the service of any Malay State where no provision has been made by law for the granting of pensions to widows and children of persons employed in its service and the contribution of such contributor under the said Widows’ and Orphans’ Pension Ordinance is in arrear, such arrears shall be deducted from any salary which may subsequently be payable to him by the Government. Officers contributing to approved schemes 15. (1) When an officer, who is a contributor to an approved scheme, is transferred to the service of the Government, and continues after such transfer to contribute to such scheme, he shall, on written application, be exempted by the Directors from contributing under this Act, so long as he continues to contribute to such scheme. (2) No application for exemption under subsection (1) shall be valid unless it is received by the Directors within three months or within such extended period as the Directors may, in any particular case, allow from the commencement of this Act, or from the date when such officer arrives to assume duty in the service of the Government, whichever is the later. (3) An officer who has contributed to an approved scheme for the full period required by such scheme and has by such contributions provided a pension for his widow or children, shall be deemed for the purposes of subsection (1) to be still contributing to such scheme. (4) An officer exempted under subsection (1) shall not subsequently become a contributor under this Act unless either he ceases to contribute to such approved scheme or, having left the service of the Government, he is subsequently reappointed to it. (5) Nothing in this section shall exempt an officer who on reappointment to the service of the Government is already a contributor under this Act, from continuing his contributions under this Act.

Widows and Orphans Pension 21 (6) Where an officer who is a contributor to an *approved scheme is transferred to the service of the Government, and ceases after such transfer to contribute to such scheme, any period during which he was a contributor to such approved scheme shall be taken into account in reckoning the period of thirty-five years referred to in section 5. (7) In this section, “approved scheme” means a scheme for the granting of pensions to widows and children of officers, which has been declared by the Secretary of State to be an approved scheme for the purposes of this section. Rules for payment when a contributor on leave of absence or pensioner is paid by the Crown Agents 16. (1) When a contributor on leave of absence is paid by the Crown Agents, he shall be entitled to receive ninety-six or forty-six per cent of his nominal salary, according as he is on full or half pay leave, converted in the case of ringgit salaries into sterling at the rate of exchange at which such contributor is entitled to receive such salary. (2) When a contributor receives his pension through the Crown Agents, such pension— (a) if a ringgit pension, shall be reduced by the amount of his ringgit contributions and the balance thus reduced shall be payable to him converted into sterling at the rate of exchange at which he is entitled to receive such pension; and (b) if a sterling pension, shall be payable to him reduced only by four per cent of his sterling salary or pension, as the case may be. *NOTE—For approved schemes see— 1. LN 45/1950 2. LN 527/1952 3. LN 368/1956 4. F.M.G.N. 1828/58 5. F.M.G.N. 2215/54

Laws of Malaysia 22 Act 681 Register of contributors to be kept 17. (1) A register shall be kept by the Directors in which shall be entered the date of the birth of every contributor and, if he be married, the dates of the births of his wife and children (if any) and all other dates and particulars respecting contributors and their families material to be recorded for the purposes of this Act. (2) Every public servant who enters the service of the Government subsequently to the commencement of this Act shall within six months after the date thereof notify the Directors the date of his birth, and if he be a married man the date of his marriage and of the births of his wife and children (if any), all duly proved to the satisfaction of the Directors by affidavit or otherwise. (3) Every contributor who marries or whose marriage is annulled or dissolved by a decree of a competent Court shall, within three months after the date of such marriage or decree, as the case may be, notify the same to the Directors in writing and, in the case of his marriage, state the date of birth of his wife, duly proved as aforesaid. (4) Every contributor shall notify to the Directors in writing the birth of each child born to him within three months from the date of such birth, duly proved as aforesaid, and the marriage of any female child under the age of twenty-one within three months from the date of such marriage, and also within three months from the date of the event the death of his wife or any of his pensionable children. (5) After the death of any contributor notice of such death and of the birth of any posthumous child born to such contributor, duly proved as aforesaid, and of the marriage of any female child of such contributor under the age of twenty-one years, and of the death of any child of such contributor under the age of twenty-one years shall be given in writing by the widow of such contributor to the Directors within three months after the date of the event.

Widows and Orphans Pension 23 Penalty for non-compliance with foregoing 18. (1) A contributor or widow who fails or neglects to comply with any of the requirements of the foregoing section shall for each default pay a fine not exceeding twenty-five ringgit, which shall be deducted from his or her salary or pension, as the case may be, by the Treasurer on the certificate of the Directors. (2) A contributor who wilfully makes any false statement respecting any of the particulars required to be furnished by this Act shall forfeit at the discretion of the Directors all or any part of his rights under this Act. Calculation of future and existing pensions 19. (1) The prospective pensions of the widows and orphans of public officers contributing under any former Widows and Orphans Pension Enactment on the day previous to the commencement of this Act and the existing pensions of the widows and orphans of any former public officers who died previous to that date shall be payable on the basis of the Rules and Tables contained in the First Schedule: Provided that in any case in which the pension already guaranteed under the Rules and Tables previously in force would be in excess of the amount to be calculated under the Rules and Tables contained in the First Schedule the higher amount shall be allowed and guaranteed. (2) All pensions accruing after the commencement of this Act in respect of increments of salary of existing public officers and in respect of original salary and increments of salary of future public officers shall be calculated according to the Rules and Tables contained in the First Schedule. (3) In the case of contributions made in the manner provided in section 4 for officers holding or having held posts the salary of which is on a sterling basis, such contributions shall for the purpose of calculating pensions be deemed to be fixed sterling contributions and the pensions shall accordingly be fixed and payable in sterling or if paid in the Federation shall be converted into ringgit at the rate annually or periodically fixed by the Federal Government for the payment in the Federation of officers salaries or pensions.

Laws of Malaysia 24 Act 681 20. (Deleted by F .M. Ord. 75 of 1950 ). When widow not entitled to pension 21. (1) (a) No widow whose marriage was contracted after her husband has completed his thirty-five years of contribution or has attained the age of sixty-five or has retired on a pension or has retired or been removed from the service of the Government before he was entitled to a pension and no issue of such marriage; and (b) No widow whose husband dies within twelve calendar months of the marriage without issue of such marriage born in his lifetime or in due time after his death shall be entitled to any pension under this Act: Provided always that the Yang di-Pertuan Agong may, if he shall think fit, allow to such last-mentioned widow all or any part of the pension to which she would have been entitled but for the last preceding paragraph. (2) References to “widow” and to “child or children of a pensionable age” hereinafter in this Act contained, shall not include a widow whose marriage was contracted in the circumstances mentioned in paragraph (1) (a) and the issue of such marriage. Pension when to commence 22. The pension payable to a widow or child or children under this Act shall commence upon the death of the husband or father or mother, as the case may be, shall accrue daily, and shall be payable monthly free from any deduction. When widow’s pension ceases 23. A widow’s pension shall cease on her death or remarriage or on her becoming a bankrupt. When a widow’s pension ceases in her lifetime, she shall for the purposes of this Act be deemed to have died at the time of such cesser: Provided always that if a widow’s pension ceases in her lifetime by reason of her bankruptcy the Chief Secretary to the Government may from time to time during the remainder of her 

Widows and Orphans Pension 25 life, or during such shorter period or periods either continuous or otherwise as he shall think fit, direct the payment of all or any part of so much (if any) of the said pension as is not for the time being payable to any child or children of such widow or of any husband of hers under this Act to, or apply the same for the maintenance and personal support or benefit of, such widow in such manner as he shall from time to time think proper. Dissolution of marriage 23a . Where the marriage of any contributor has been annulled or dissolved by the decree of any competent Court, the wife, party to such marriage, shall for all purposes of this Act be deemed to have died, and the contributor to have become a widower, at the date of such decree. When children’s pensions cease 24. Children’s pensions shall cease in the case of a male on his attaining the age of twenty-one years and in the case of a female on her attaining the age of twenty-one years or marrying under that age. Widow but no child by previous marriage 25. If a contributor dies leaving a widow but no child of a pensionable age by a previous marriage, the widow shall be entitled to receive a pension calculated according to the Rules and Tables contained in the First Schedule applicable to her case under this Act. Child by one marriage 26. If a contributor dies leaving no widow but a child or children of a pensionable age by one marriage, such child or children shall be entitled to receive the pension which his or their mother would have been entitled to if she had survived the contributor.

Laws of Malaysia 26 Act 681 Children by several marriages 27. If a contributor dies leaving no widow but children of pensionable age by two or more marriages, the child or children of each marriage shall be entitled to receive one-half, one-third, or one-quarter (as the case may be) of the pension which his or their mother would have been entitled to if she had survived the contributor and there had been no child by any other marriage. Widow, and child by previous marriage 28. If a contributor dies leaving a widow and also a child or children of pensionable age by one previous marriage— (i) the widow shall be entitled to receive one-half of the pension which she would have been entitled to receive if there had been no such child or children; and (ii) such child or children shall be entitled to receive one-half of the pension which his or their mother would have been entitled to if she had survived the contributor. Widow, and children by several marriages 29. If a contributor dies leaving a widow and children of pensionable age by two or more marriages— (i) the widow shall be entitled to receive one-third or one- quarter, as the case may be, of the pension which she would have received if there had been no child by a previous marriage; (ii) the child or children of each previous marriage shall be entitled to receive one-third or one-quarter as the case may be, of the pension which his or their mother would have been entitled to if she had survived the contributor and there had been no child by any other marriage. Interest of children when widow’s interest ceases 30. When the widow of a contributor ceases to be entitled to a pension, the child or children of a contributor shall be entitled to receive the pension which he or they would have been entitled to receive if such widow had predeceased the contributor.

Widows and Orphans Pension 27 Interest of other children when child’s interest ceases 31. If any child dies or ceases to be of pensionable age, the surviving children of the same marriage shall be entitled to receive the pension to which they would have been entitled if such child had predeceased the contributor. Interest of others when interest of all children of a marriage ceases 32. When all the children of any marriage cease to be of pensionable age, then the person or persons entitled under the preceding sections shall be entitled to receive the pension which he or they would have been entitled to receive if there had been no child of such marriage of pensionable age living at the death of the contributor. Children share equally 33. Where children of any marriage are entitled to any pension they shall take the same in equal shares. Adopted children 33a . (1) A child adopted by a contributor while he is married to any wife shall, for the purpose of this Act, be deemed to be the child of the contributor by that marriage if— (a) the contributor adopted the child before he retired from the public service; (b) the contributor was under the age of fifty-five years at the date of the adoption; and (c) the adoption is registered under the Adoption Act 1952 [Act 257 ] or is valid according to the law of the place of domicile of the contributor at the date of the adoption or is valid under any written law corresponding to the Adoption Act 1952, of the place where the contributor was resident at the date of the adoption.

Laws of Malaysia 28 Act 681 (2) The child of a contributor who has been adopted by any other person in circumstances in which if the adoption had been made by a contributor it would have been valid in accordance with paragraph (1) (c) shall not be entitled to receive a pension under this Act unless the contributor so elects by notice in writing given to the Directors within twelve months of the date of the adoption or within twelve months of the date of the coming into force of this section, whichever is the later, or within such extended period as the Directors may in any particular case allow. (3) Nothing in this section shall entitle an adopted child— (a) to receive a pension or any share of pension where the receipt by him of such pension or such share would diminish the pension or share which the widow or any child or children by marriage of any contributor may be entitled to receive at the time of the coming into force of this section; or (b) to receive a pension or any share of a pension in respect of more than one contributor. Proof to be produced before payment of pension 34. Widows and children claiming to be entitled to pension under this Act and residing out of the Federation must from time to time produce such proof as the Directors may require of their being alive and entitled to pension and the payment of any pension may be refused until such proof is furnished to the satisfaction of the Directors. Discretion as to payment of minor’s pension 35. (1) Where the parties entitled to pensions are minors such pensions may on order of the Directors be paid either to the legal guardian or guardians of such minors or to such minors or to such person or persons as the Directors may in their absolute discretion think fit and proper persons to apply the same for the benefit of such minors and after payment the Directors and the Government shall be free from all responsibility in respect of such payment.

Widows and Orphans Pension 29 (2) In the case of any pension which is paid through the Crown Agents for Oversea Governments and Administrations the power given by subsection (1) to the Directors may be exercised by the Crown Agents. Pension not assignable 36. No pension payable and no rights of any contributor acquired under this Act shall be assignable or transferable or liable to be attached, sequestrated or levied upon for or in respect of any debt or claim whatsoever. Questions and disputes to be decided by the Chief Secretary to the Government 37. All questions and disputes as to who is entitled to be deemed a contributor, the right of a widow or child to a pension, the amount of such pension, or the rights or liabilities of any person under this Act shall be referred by the Directors to the Chief Secretary to the Government whose decision shall be binding and conclusive on all parties and shall be final to all intents and purposes and shall not be subject to appeal or to be questioned or revised by any Court of justice. Rules 38. The Yang di-Pertuan Agong may from time to time frame Rules not inconsistent herewith for the proper carrying out of this Act.

Laws of Malaysia 30 Act 681 First s chedule SYNOPSIS OF RULES A to c . c alculation o F p ensions A. p ublic o FFicer W ho c ommenced to c ontribute While a b achelor I. First Wife’s Prospective Pension (a) Pension in consideration of the contributions paid during bachelorhood (b) Pension in consideration of the annual contribution current at the date of marriage (c) Variations of pension consequent on increments to, and decrements from, the current annual contribution while the contributor is married to his first wife II. Second, and Subsequent, Wife’s Prospective Pension (a) Variations of pension consequent on increments to, and decrements from, the current annual contribution while the contributor is a widower (b) Variations of pension consequent on the remarriage of the contributor (c) Variations of pension consequent on increments to, and decrements from, the current annual contribution while the contributor is married to his second, or subsequent wife B. p ublic o FFicer W ho c ommenced t o c ontribute While m arried III. First Wife’s Prospective Pension (a) Pension in consideration of the annual contribution current at the date of commencement of the contribution (b) Variations of pension consequent on increments to, and decrements from, the current annual contribution while the contributor is married to his first wife IV . Second, and Subsequent, Wife’s Prospective Pension (a) Variations of pension consequent on increments to, and decrements from, the current annual contribution while the contributor is a widower (b) Variations of pension consequent on the re-marriage of the contributor (c) Variations of pension consequent on increments to, and decrements from, the current annual contribution while the contributor is married to his second, or subsequent wife

Widows and Orphans Pension 31 C. p ublic o FFicer W ho c ommenced t o c ontribute While a W ido Wer V . Second, and Subsequent, Wife’s Prospective Pension D. p ensions t o o rphan c hildren VI. Orphans’ Pensions at Death of Widower Contributor (a) Case where the orphans are the issue of the same wife (b) Case where the orphans are the issue of different wives VII. Orphans’ Pensions at Death or Remarriage of Widow VIII. Orphans’ Pensions at Death of Married Contributor DD. o FFicer t rans Ferred F rom * p alestine IX. Treatment of Lump Sum Contributions (a) Bachelor or widower without children (b) Married or widower with children (c) Part payment of lump sum under Palestine Ordinance DDD.— r etirement o F e ntitled o FFicers X. Single Contribution XI. Repayment e . p ublic o FFicer t rans Ferred t o e mployment u nder t he c ro Wn o F G reat b ritain F. c alculation o F Q uantities ( o r t abular r esults ) F or a Ges n ot G iven i n t he t ables *NOTE—see section 13 of F.M. Ord. No. 75 of 1950.

Laws of Malaysia 32 Act 681 a to c . c alculation o F p ensions The amount of the pension payable under the Act shall be calculated in accordance with the following rules: a . p ublic o FFicer W ho c ommenced t o c ontribute While a b achelor i . F irst W i Fe ’s p rospective p ension (a) Pension in Consideration of the Contributions Paid during Bachelorhood Rule I (a) Accumulate the contributions at 8 per cent. compound interest, with yearly rests at each 31 December, and multiply the result by the quantity found from Table A corresponding to the respective ages next birthday of the husband and wife at the date of marriage. The product gives the pension on account of the contributions paid during bachelorhood. (b) Pension in Consideration of the Annual Contribution Current at the Date of Marriage Note —The amount of the current annual contribution is obtained by multiplying by 12 the amount of the last monthly contribution. Rule I (b) Turn to the section of Table B which contains in the heading the age of the husband at the date of completion of his period of contribution; and multiply the amount of the current annual contribution by the quantity found from that section corresponding to the respective ages next birthday of the husband and wife at the date of marriage. The product gives the pension on account of the annual contribution current at the date of marriage. e xample of the application of Rules I (a) and I (b): Officer born on … … … … … … 31 July 1878 Officer commenced to contribute on … … … … … 1 April 1904 Officer married on … … … … … … 30 June 1908 Annual contribution, 1 April 1904 to … RM20 31 December 1906 Annual contribution, 1 January 1907 to date of … RM30 marriage Date of completion of contribution period … … … 1 April 1939 Wife born on … … … … … … … 31 August 1888 Officer’s age next birthday at date of … … … … … ... ... .... 30 marriage Officer’s age next birthday at completion of … .... ... ... 61 contribution period Wife’s age next birthday at date of … … … … … ... ... ... 20 marriage

Widows and Orphans Pension 33 Application of Rule I (a): Accumulation of contributions paid during bachelorhood— Contributions from 1 April to 31 December 1904 RM15.00 Contributions during 1905 … … … … … … 20.00 One year’s interest at 8 per cent. on RM15 … … … … 1.20 ———— 36.20 Contributions during 1906 … … … … … … 20.00 One year’s interest at 8 per cent. on RM36.20 … … … 2.90 ———— 59.10 Contributions during 1907 … … … … … … 30.00 One year’s interest at 8 per cent. on RM59.10 … … … 4.73 ———— 93.83 Contributions from 1 January to 30 June 1908 … … … 15.00 Half-year’s interest at 8 per cent. on RM93.83 … … … 3.75 Total accumulation … RM112.58 ———— Quantity found from Table A— *Husband … … … … … 30 *Wife … … … … … 20 RM112.58 x .554 = RM62.37 = pension in consideration of contributions paid during bachelorhood. Application of Rule I (b): Annual contribution current at the date of marriage RM30. Quantity found from Table B, section for officers aged 61 next birthday at completion of period of contribution— *Husband … … … … … 30 *Wife … … … … … 20 RM30 x 5.77=RM173.10=pension in consideration of annual contribution current at marriage. .554 5.77 *NOTE—Where the ages are not given in the Tables, proceed as illustrated in the general examples given under the heading “F. CALCULATION OF QUANTITIES (OR TABULAR RESULTS) FOR AGES NOT GIVEN IN THE TABLES”.

Laws of Malaysia 34 Act 681 Total Pension to be recorded on the bachelor contributor marrying— By Rule I (a) … … … … … … … RM62.37 By Rule I (b) … … … … … … … 173.10 ————— Total … RM235.47 ————— (c) Variations of Pension Consequent on Increments to, and Decrements from, the Current Annual Contribution while the Contributor is Married to his First Wife. n ote —The cessation of the contribution from any cause before the completion of the full period of contribution must be regarded as a decrement from the current annual contribution equal to the amount of such current annual contribution. Rule I (c) Turn to the section of Table B which contains in the heading the age of the husband at the date of completion of his period of contribution; and multiply the amount of the increment to, or the decrement from, the current annual contribution by the quantity found from that section corresponding to the respective ages next birthday of the husband and wife at the date of the variation of the contribution. The product gives the amount to be added to the pension consequent on the increment to the current annual contribution, or as the case may be, the amount to be deducted from the pension consequent on the decrement from the current annual contribution. e xample of the application of Rule I (c): Assume particulars as in the example subjoined to Rules I (a) and I (b)— Annual contribution increased on 31 May 1913, from RM30 to … ... ... RM50 Annual contribution decreased on 30 April 1918, from RM50 to … ... ... 40 Annual contribution ceased on 31 March 1923. 31 May 1913, increment to current annual contribution … … … … 20 Quantity found from Table B, section for officers aged 61 next birthday at completion of period of contribution— Husband … … … … … 35 Wife … … … … … 25 RM20 x 4.74=RM94.80=amount to be added to the pension. 4.74

Widows and Orphans Pension 35 Pension at marriage, see example subjoined to Rules I (a) and I (b) RM235.47 Add … … … … … … … … … 94.80 ————— Pension at 31 May 1913 … … … … … … RM330.27 ————— 30 April 1918, decrement from current annual contribution … RM10 Quantity found from Table B, section for officers aged 61 next birthday at completion of period of contribution— Husband … … … … … 40 Wife … … … … … 30 RM10 x 3.83=RM38.30=amount to be deducted from the pension. Pension at 31 May 1913, as above … … … … … RM330.27 Deduct … … … … … … … … … 38.30 ————— Pension at 30 April 1918 … … … … … … RM291.97 ————— 31 March 1923, cessation of contribution regarded as a decrement from current annual contribution … … … RM40 Quantity found from Table B, section for officers aged 61 next birthday at completion of period of contribution— Husband … … … … … 45 Wife … … … … … 35 RM40 x 2.99=RM119.60=amount to be deducted from the pension. Pension at 30 April 1918, as above … … … … … RM291.97 Deduct … … … … … … … … … 119.60 ————— Pension at 31 March 1923 … … … … … … RM172.37 ————— II. s econd , and s ubse Quent , W i Fe ’s p rospective p ension (a) Variations of Pension Consequent on Increments to, and Decrements from the Current Annual Contribution while the Contributor is a Widower Rule II (a) Assume that the contributor is married to a wife of the age that his last preceding wife would have been had she survived to the date of the variation of the contribution, and proceed in accordance with Rule I (c). 3.83 2.99

Laws of Malaysia 36 Act 681 e xample of the application of Rule II (a): If the particulars be as in the example subjoined to Rule I (c), except that the first wife, who was born on 31 August 1888, died on 30 November 1908, it would be assumed that the contributor was at the date of each of the three variations of the contribution married to a wife who was born on the 31 August 1888. The calculations will then be identical with those given in the example subjoined to Rule I (c). (b) Variations of Pension Consequent on the Remarriage of the Contributor. n ote —No variation of the pension is to be recorded if the second or subsequent wife was at the date of the remarriage of the same age next birthday as the last preceding wife would have been had she survived to that date. Rule II (b) If the second or subsequent wife was at the date of the remarriage of a less or greater age next birthday than the last preceding wife would have been had she survived to that date, multiply the amount of the pension by the quantity found from Table C corresponding to the age next birthday of the husband at the date of remarriage, and the age next birthday which the last preceding wife would have attained had she survived to that date; multiply the product so obtained by the quantity found from Table A corresponding to the respective ages of the husband and of the second or subsequent wife at the date of the remarriage. The result gives the pension to be recorded on the remarriage of the contributor. e xample of the application of Rule II (b): Assume particulars as in the example subjoined to Rules I (a) and I (b)— First wife died on … … … … 30 November 1908 Contributor remarried on … … … … 31 January 1913 Contributor’s age next birthday at date of remarriage … … 35 Second wife born on … … … … … 30 June 1893 Second wife’s age next birthday at date of the remarriage … 20 Age next birthday which the first wife would have attained had she survived to date of the remarriage … … … … 25 31 January 1913–The second wife being of a less age next birthday at the date of the remarriage than the first wife would have been had she survived, the pension RM235.47 [ see example subjoined to Rules I (a) and I (b)] is to be recalculated. Quantity found from Table C— Husband … … … … … 35 Wife … … … … … 25 2.074

Widows and Orphans Pension 37 Quantity found from Table A— Husband … … … … … 35 Wife … … … … … 20 RM235.47 x 2.074 = RM488.36. RM488.36 x 0.462 = RM225.62 = pension at 31 January 1913. (c) Variations of Pension Consequent on Increments to, and Decrements from, the Current Annual Contribution while the Contributor is Married to his Second or Subsequent Wife. Rule II (c) Proceed as in Rule I (c). B. PUBLIC OFFICER WHO COMMENCED TO CONTRIBUTE WHILE MARRIED III. First W i Fe ’s p rospective p ension n ote — In every case of a public officer who commenced to contribute while married, the wife at the date of commencement of the contribution is to be considered as the officer’s first wife, and no particulars are to be recorded respecting any former wife to whom he may have been married, unless there is issue of such former wife of a pensionable age ( see D.—Pensions to orphan children). (a) Pension in Consideration of the Annual Contribution Current at the Date of Commencement of the Contribution Rule III (a) Turn to the section of Table B which contains in the heading the age of the husband at the date of completion of his period of contribution; and multiply the amount of the current annual contribution by the quantity found from that section corresponding to the respective ages next birthday of the husband and wife at the date of commencement of the contribution. The product gives the pension on account of the annual contribution current at the date of commencement of the contribution. e xample of the application of Rule III (a): Officer born on … … … … … … 31 August 1870 Officer married on … … … … … … 30 June 1899 Officer commenced to contribute on … … … 31 July 1910 Annual contribution current on 31 July 1910 … RM100 Date of completion of contribution period … … 31 August 1935 Wife born on … … … … … … 31 October 1880 Officer’s age next birthday on 31 July 1910 … … … … 40 Officer’s age at completion of contribution period … … … … 65 Wife’s age next birthday on 31 July 1910 … … … … … 30 31 July 1910, current annual contribution … … … … … RM100 0.462

Laws of Malaysia 38 Act 681 Quantity found from Table B, section for officers aged 65 next birthday at completion of period of contribution— Husband … … … … … 40 Wife … … … … … 30 RM100 x 3.99 = RM399.00 = pension in consideration of annual contribution current at commencement of contribution. (b) Variations of Pension Consequent on Increments to, and Decrements from, the Current Annual Contribution while the Contributor is Married to His First Wife Rule III (b) Proceed as in Rule I (c). IV . s econd a nd s ubse Quent W i Fe ’s p rospective p ension (a) Variations of Pension Consequent on Increments to, and Decrements from, the Current Annual Contribution while the Contributor is a Widower Rule IV (a) Proceed as in Rule II (a). (b) Variations of Pension Consequent on the Remarriage of the Contributor Rule IV (b) Proceed as in Rule II (b). (c) Variations of Pension Consequent on Increments to, and Decrements from, the Current Annual Contribution while the Contributor is Married to his Second or Subsequent Wife Rule IV (c) Proceed as in Rule I (c). C. PUBLIC OFFICER WHO COMMENCED TO CONTRIBUTE WHILE A WIDOWER V. s econd and s ubse Quent W i Fe ’s p rospective p ension Rule V . For the purpose of calculating the pension assume that the deceased wife survived to the date of commencement of the contribution and died immediately afterwards; then proceed in accordance with the Rules applicable to the case of officers who commenced to contribute while married ( see B). D. PENSIONS TO ORPHAN CHILDREN VI. o rphans ’ p ensions a t d eath o F W ido Wer c ontributor (a) Case where the Orphans are the Issue of the same Wife Rule VI (a) Divide the amount of the pension of the widower contributor equally among the children entitled for the time being. 3.99

Widows and Orphans Pension 39 e xample of the application of Rule VI (a): Pension of widower contributor at his death RM150 p.a. Children entitled on his death— Spinster daughter aged … … … … … … … 19 Son aged … … … … … … … … … 14 Son aged … … … … … … … … … 12 Each of the three children will take a pension of RM50 per annum. If the spinster daughter marry at the age of 20 the two sons will each take a pension of RM75 per annum. If the younger son subsequently die at the age of 15 the elder son will take the full pension of RM150 per annum. (b) Case where the Orphans are the Issue of different wives n ote —The Rules here given provide for the case of two wives only. Rule VI (b) (I) Divide equally among such of the children of the first wife as may be entitled for the time being one-half of the pension which the first wife would have received had she survived the contributor; (2) Divide equally among such of the children of the second wife as may be entitled for the time being one-half of the pension which the second wife would have received had she survived the contributor, and had there been no issue of the first wife entitled to pension; (3) So soon as all the children of either the first wife or the second wife have ceased to be entitled to pension, divide equally among such of the children of the other wife as may be entitled for the time being the whole of the pension which such other wife would have received had she survived the contributor, and had there been no issue of the first wife entitled to pension. VII. o rphans ’ p ensions a t d eath o r r emarria Ge o F W ido W Rule VII. Divide the amount of the widow’s pension equally among her children entitled for the time being. e xample of the application of Rule VII: Amount of widow’s pension at her death or remarriage—RM150 per annum. Children entitled at her death— Assuming the particulars as in the example subjoined to Rule VI(a) proceed as therein indicated.

Laws of Malaysia 40 Act 681 VIII. o rphans ’ p ensions a t d eath o F m arried c ontributor Rule VIII. In the case where a contributor dies leaving a widow, and also children the issue of a previous marriage, divide equally among such of the children of the first wife as may be entitled for the time being one-half of the pension which the first wife would have received had she survived the contributor. On the widow’s pension ceasing, divide equally among such of the children of the first wife as may be entitled for the time being the whole of the pension which the first wife would have received had she survived the contributor. n ote .—In this case, so long, as the children of the first wife are entitled to pension, the widow’s pension is one-half of that which she would have received had there been no such children. DD. OFFICER TRANSFERRED FROM PALESTINE IX. t reatment o F l ump s um c ontributions m ade u nder t he p rovisions o F s ection 13 o F t he W ido Ws a nd o rphans p ension ( a mendment a nd e xtended a pplication ) o rdinance 1950 (a) Bachelor or widower without children Rule IX (a). If the contributor is a bachelor, or a widower without children of a pensionable age, the lump sum contribution shall be accumulated as from the date of transfer or from 15 May 1948, whichever is the later, and treated in accordance with Rule I (a). (b) Married or widower with children Rule IX (b).—If the contributor is married, or a widower with children of a pensionable age, the amount of the lump sum shall be multiplied by the quantity found from Table A corresponding to the respective ages last birthday of the husband and wife on the date of transfer or on 15 May 1948, whichever is the later. If the contributor is a widower it shall be presumed that the deceased wife lived until the date of payment of the lump sum and died immediately afterwards. (c) Part payment of lump sum under Palestine Ordinance Rule IX (c). Notwithstanding the provisions of Rule IX (a) and Rule IX (b), if the lump sum contribution made under the Ordinance consists in part of a lump sum contribution made by the contributor under the Palestine Widow’s and Orphans’ Pensions Ordinance 1944, in respect of the period for which he could have contributed had that Ordinance come into force five years earlier, the benefit resulting from such part of the lump sum contribution as calculated in accordance with Rule IX (a) or Rule IX (b) shall be reduced by five eights.

Widows and Orphans Pension 41 DDD. RETIREMENT OF ENTITLED OFFICERS X. s in Gle c ontribution Rule X. The single contribution referred to in paragraph 5b (1) (b) is calculated by multiplying the annual contribution, calculated at the rate of four per centum of his salary or pension, by the Table B factor and dividing the product by the Table A factor, both factors corresponding to the ages next birthday of the officer and his wife at the date of retirement. Example : If an officer, who is 61 next birthday at the completion of the period of contribution, is 40 next birthday and his wife 35 next birthday at the date of retirement the single contribution necessary to commute an annual contribution of RM400 per annum is 400 x 4.06 ÷ 0.449 = RM3,620. In this case 4.06 is the value in Table B for officers who will be aged 61 next birthday at completion of contributions and 0.449 is the value in Table A. XI.— r epayment Rule XI. The sum referred to in paragraph 5b (l)(c) is calculated by subtracting from the officer’s prospective pension, calculated in accordance with the foregoing rules, the product of his annual contribution and Table B factor, and multiplying the product by the Table C factor, both factors corresponding to the ages next birthday of the officer and his wife at the date of retirement. Example : An officer aged 40 next birthday with a wife aged 35 has a registered pension of RM4,000 per annum based on continued annual contribution of RM400 up to the age of 61 next birthday. If he ceases to contribute on retirement his paid-up registered pension will be RM4,000 minus RM400 x 4.06 = 2,376. In this case 4.06 is the value in Table B for officers who will be 61 next birthday at completion of contributions. To calculate the refundable sum RM2,376 must be multiplied by 2.226, being the appropriate value in Table C, giving a product of RM5,288. E. PUBLIC OFFICER TRANSFERRED TO EMPLOYMENT UNDER THE CROWN OF GREAT BRITAIN Throughout these Rules and examples the calculations depend, not on the official income of the contributor, but on the amount of his contribution to the Fund so that the transfer of a public officer to another service does not affect his pension unless the amount of his current annual contribution is varied, in which case the proper adjustment is to be made in accordance with the preceding Rules. F. CALCULATION OF QUANTITIES (OR TABULAR RESULTS) FOR AGES NOT GIVEN IN THE TABLES Table A—The quantities are given for every age of the husband from 15 to 64; and for every fifth age of the wife from 15 to 65. Ages of husbands and wives below or beyond are to be treated as the youngest and oldest ages given respectively.

Laws of Malaysia 42 Act 681 For the intermediate ages of wives, interpolate by first differences, as follows— To find the quantity corresponding to the ages of a husband and wife aged, respectively, 35 and 27 next birthday. The quantity for ages 35 and 25 given in the Table is 0.482. The quantity for ages 35 and 30 given in the Table is 0.507. So that the addition of five years to the age of the wife results in an addition of 0.025 to the quantity given in the Table for ages 35 and 25. An addition of two years to the age of the wife accordingly results by proportion in an addition of two-fifths of 0.025 to the quantity given in the Table for ages 35 and 25. Two fifths of 0.025 = 0.01 which added to 0.482 gives 0.492 which is the required quantity corresponding to ages 35 and 27. Table B—This Table is divided into eleven sections, respectively applicable to officers who will be aged next birthday 55, 56, 57 . . . up to 65, when they complete their period of contribution. Care should in all cases be taken to turn to the section which contains in the heading the age of the husband at the date of completion of his period of contribution. In each section the quantities are given for 35 consecutive ages of the husband, terminating at the age preceding that at which the contribution ceases, and for every fifth age of the wife from 15 to 65. Ages of the wife below or beyond are to be treated as the youngest and oldest ages given, respectively. For the intermediate ages of wives interpolate by first differences as explained above. Thus, the quantity found from the first section of the Table (age 55) corresponding to the ages of a husband and wife aged, respectively, 45 and 38 next birthday is three-fifths of 0.18, added to 2.39, which gives 2.498. For officers who commence to contribute at an earlier age than 20 next birthday the method of calculation given in the subjoined examples is to be followed— e xample (1): An officer aged 17 next birthday, having a wife aged 15 next birthday, commences to contribute. Assume that the officer is aged 20 next birthday, so that the quantity found from Table B will be 8.30. This officer receives an increment of salary at age 22 next birthday, when his wife’s age is 20. Assume that his age is 25 next birthday—i.e., his actual age 22 — plus the difference between his actual age at entry and 20, which is three years. The quantity found from Table B will be 7.00.

Widows and Orphans Pension 43 e xample (2): An officer aged 19 next birthday commences to contribute as a bachelor, and five years later, when aged 24 next birthday, marries; his wife’s age being 20 next birthday. The quantity found from Table A in accordance with Rule I (a) will be taken for the actual ages (husband 24 and wife 20) and will be 0.683. With respect to the current annual contribution at marriage, assume that the officer’s age is 25 (his actual age plus one) so that the quantity found from Table B will be 7.00. This officer receives an increment of salary when aged 39, when his wife’s age is 35. Assume as before that the ages are 40 and 35, respectively, so that the quantity found from Table B will be 3.61. n ote —It will be observed that this method takes account of the actual number of years for which the annual contribution will run. In example (1), when the officer receives the increment of salary at age 22 he has contributed for five years, so that at the expiration of 30 years his contributions will cease. Similarly, in example (2), when the officer marries at age 24, he also has contributed for five years, so that although he is two years older than the officer in example (1), yet the unexpired period of contribution is the same in each case, and the wife’s age is in each instance 20, so that no important error is involved in using the same tabular quantity for the two cases. Table C—The quantities are given for the same ages as in Table A. Ages of husbands and wives below and beyond are to be treated as in using that Table. For the intermediate ages of wives interpolate by first differences as explained above, except that it must be noted that in this Table an addition to the age of the wife results in a deduction from the quantity given in the Table. To find the quantity corresponding to the ages of a husband and wife aged, respectively, 35 and 27 next birthday. The quantity for ages 35 and 25 given in the Table is 2.074. The quantity for ages 35 and 30 given in the Table is 1.974. So that the addition of five years to the age of the wife results in a deduction of 0.100 from the quantity given in the Table for ages 35 and 25. An addition of two years to the age of the wife accordingly results by proportion in a deduction of two-fifths of 0.100 from the quantity given in the Table for ages 35 and 25. Two-fifths of 0.100 = 0.04, which deducted from 2.074 leaves 2.034, which is the required quantity corresponding to ages 35 and 27.

Laws of Malaysia 44 Act 681 TABLE A t he y early p ension , payable by m onthly i nstalments , Which a s in Gle c ontribution o F 1 W ill secure Age of husband next birthday AGE OF WIFE NEXT BIRTHDAY 15 20 25 30 35 40 45 50 55 60 65 15 .867 .900 .940 .990 1.055 1.134 1.238 1.389 1.595 1.866 2.242 16 .844 .876 .916 .964 1.028 1.106 1.208 1.353 1.550 1.812 2.188 17 .821 .851 .890 .938 1.000 1.078 1.178 1.318 1.506 1.758 2.132 18 .797 .827 .865 .912 .972 1.047 1.146 1.282 1.464 1.706 2.075 19 .774 .801 .839 .884 .943 1.016 1.112 1.249 1.420 1.658 2.008 20 .751 .779 .814 .858 .916 .987 1.080 1.214 1.378 1.608 1.938 21 .728 .755 .789 .833 .887 .958 1.048 1.177 1.337 1.558 1.873 22 .705 .730 .763 .806 .859 .928 1.016 1.140 1.297 1.508 1.812 23 .683 .707 .738 .780 .831 .899 .983 1.104 1.253 1.460 1.748 24 .660 .683 .713 .754 .803 .869 .952 1.067 1.212 1.411 1.686 25 .639 .660 .690 .728 .776 .838 .919 1.032 1.172 1.364 1.623 26 .618 .638 .667 .703 .750 .809 .887 .997 1.134 1.318 1.562 27 .597 .616 .644 .679 .725 .781 .857 .963 1.096 1.272 1.504 28 .577 .595 .622 .655 .699 .753 .826 .930 1.059 1.229 1.449 29 .556 .573 .600 .632 .674 .727 .797 .898 1.024 1.185 1.397 30 .536 .554 .578 .609 .649 .700 .769 .866 .988 1.142 1.346 31 .518 .534 .558 .587 .626 .674 .741 .835 .954 1.101 1.295 32 .500 .516 .538 .565 .602 .650 .714 .804 .921 1.063 1.245 33 .482 .497 .519 .545 .580 .627 .688 .776 .888 1.025 1.199 34 .465 .479 .500 .525 .558 .604 .662 .747 .856 .988 1.155 35 .448 .462 .482 .507 .538 .582 .638 .720 .825 .953 1.114 36 .434 .446 .465 .489 .519 .562 .615 .695 .795 .919 1.075 37 .419 .430 .449 .472 .501 .542 .593 .670 .766 .886 1.038 38 .405 .415 .433 .455 .483 .522 .572 .645 .739 .854 1.003 39 .391 .401 .417 .439 .466 .503 .551 .621 .712 .824 .969 40 .378 .387 .402 .423 .449 .484 .530 .598 .686 .795 .936 41 .365 .374 .388 .408 .433 .466 .509 .575 .661 .768 .906 42 .353 .361 .375 .393 .417 .449 .490 .554 .637 .741 .876 43 .341 .349 .362 .379 .402 .432 .472 .533 .614 .716 .848 44 .330 .337 .349 .366 .387 .416 .454 .513 .591 .692 .820 45 .318 .325 .337 .353 .373 .401 .438 .494 .570 .667 .792 46 .307 .314 .326 .341 .360 .386 .422 .476 .549 .642 .764 47 .297 .304 .315 .329 .347 .373 .407 .459 .529 .618 .738 48 .287 .294 .304 .318 .336 .359 .393 .443 .510 .595 .713 49 .278 .284 .294 .307 .323 .347 .378 .427 .491 .572 .689 50 .268 .275 .284 .296 .312 .335 .365 .411 .474 .551 .666 51 .260 .266 .275 .286 .301 .323 .352 .396 .457 .531 .644 52 .251 .258 .266 .277 .291 .312 .340 .382 .440 .513 .624 53 .244 .250 .258 .268 .282 .301 .328 .369 .425 .496 .604 54 .236 .242 .250 .259 .272 .291 .317 .356 .410 .482 .586 55 .228 .234 .242 .251 .264 .281 .306 .344 .396 .467 .568 56 .221 .227 .234 .243 .256 .272 .296 .333 .383 .453 .552 57 .215 .220 .227 .236 .248 .263 .286 .322 .372 .440 .536 58 .208 .214 .220 .229 .240 .255 .277 .312 .360 .427 .522 59 .202 .207 .214 .222 .233 .247 .268 .302 .350 .415 .508 60 .196 .201 .208 .216 .226 .240 .260 .293 .340 .404 .495 61 .190 .196 .202 .210 .220 .232 .252 .284 .330 .393 .484 62 .184 .190 .196 .204 .214 .226 .244 .275 .321 .383 .473 63 .179 .185 .191 .199 .208 .219 .237 .266 .311 .374 .463 64 .174 .180 .186 .193 .202 .213 .230 .258 .302 .364 .454

Widows and Orphans Pension 45 TABLE B t his s ection o F t able b i s applicable only to the case o F o FFicers Who Will be a Ged 55 next birthday , When they c omplete their p eriod o F c ontribution . t he y early p ension , payable by m onthly i nstalments , Which a y early c ontribution o F 1, payable also by m onthly i nstalments , Will secure . t he y early c ontribution is to c ease on the t ermination o F 35 years From the d ate o F the o FFicer ’s F irst c ontribution a Fter e ntry into the F und . Age of husband next birthday AGE OF WIFE NEXT BIRTHDAY 15 20 25 30 35 40 45 50 55 60 65 20 8.30 8.60 8.98 9.47 10.11 10.90 11.92 13.40 15.21 17.75 21.40 21 7.98 8.27 8.64 9.13 9.72 10.50 11.52 12.89 14.65 17.07 20.53 22 7.67 7.95 8.30 8.77 9.34 10.10 11.06 12.41 14.11 16.41 19.71 23 7.37 7.63 7.97 8.42 8.98 9.71 10.62 11.92 13.53 15.77 18.88 24 7.07 7.33 7.63 8.07 8.59 9.30 10.18 11.42 12.97 15.09 18.04 25 6.77 7.00 7.31 7.72 8.22 8.89 9.74 10.94 12.43 14.46 17.21 26 6.49 6.70 7.00 7.38 7.88 8.50 9.32 10.47 11.90 13.84 16.41 27 6.20 6.40 6.69 7.05 7.52 8.10 8.89 10.00 11.38 13.21 15.61 28 5.92 6.10 6.38 6.72 7.17 7.72 8.48 9.54 10.87 12.60 14.87 29 5.64 5.80 6.07 6.40 6.83 7.36 8.07 9.09 10.39 12.00 14.15 30 5.36 5.54 5.78 6.09 6.49 7.00 7.69 8.66 9.88 11.42 13.46 31 5.10 5.26 5.49 5.78 6.16 6.64 7.30 8.22 9.40 10.85 12.76 32 4.84 5.00 5.22 5.48 5.84 6.31 6.92 7.80 8.93 10.31 12.08 33 4.60 4.74 4.94 5.19 5.52 5.97 6.55 7.39 8.46 9.77 11.43 34 4.36 4.48 4.68 4.92 5.23 5.66 6.20 7.00 8.02 9.25 10.81 35 4.12 4.24 4.42 4.65 4.94 5.34 5.85 6.60 7.57 8.74 10.21 36 3.90 4.00 4.18 4.39 4.66 5.05 5.53 6.24 7.14 8.26 9.66 37 3.66 3.77 3.94 4.14 4.39 4.75 5.20 5.87 6.72 7.77 9.11 38 3.46 3.55 3.70 3.88 4.13 4.46 4.88 5.51 6.31 7.29 8.57 39 3.24 3.33 3.46 3.64 3.87 4.18 4.57 5.16 5.91 6.84 8.04 40 3.04 3.11 3.24 3.40 3.61 3.89 4.26 4.81 5.51 6.39 7.53 41 2.84 2.90 3.02 3.16 3.36 3.62 3.95 4.47 5.13 5.96 7.03 42 2.63 2.69 2.80 2.93 3.11 3.35 3.66 4.15 4.75 5.53 6.54 43 2.44 2.49 2.58 2.71 2.87 3.09 3.37 3.81 4.38 5.11 6.06 44 2.24 2.29 2.37 2.48 2.63 2.83 3.08 3.49 4.02 4.70 5.57 45 2.04 2.08 2.16 2.26 2.39 2.57 2.80 3.16 3.65 4.27 5.07 46 1.84 1.88 1.94 2.03 2.15 2.31 2.52 2.84 3.28 3.83 4.56 47 1.64 1.68 1.74 1.82 1.92 2.06 2.25 2.54 2.92 3.41 4.07 48 1.44 1.48 1.53 1.59 1.68 1.81 1.98 2.23 2.56 2.99 3.58 49 1.25 1.28 1.32 1.38 1.45 1.56 1.70 1.92 2.21 2.57 3.10 50 1.05 1.08 1.11 1.16 1.22 1.31 1.43 1.61 1.86 2.16 2.61 51 .85 .87 .90 .94 .99 1.06 1.16 1.30 1.50 1.74 2.11 52 .65 .67 .69 .71 .75 .80 .88 .98 1.14 1.32 1.61 53 .44 .45 .46 .48 .51 .54 .59 .66 .77 .89 1.09 54 .22 .23 .24 .25 .26 .28 .30 .34 .39 .46 .56

Laws of Malaysia 46 Act 681 TABLE B t his s ection o F t able b is applicable only to the case o F o FFicers Who Will be a Ged 56 next b irthday , When they c omplete their p eriod o F c ontribution . t he y early p ension , payable by m onthly i nstalments , Which a y early c ontribution o F 1, payable also by m onthly i nstalments , Will secure . t he yearly c ontribution is to cease on the t ermination o F 35 years From the d ate o F the o FFicer ’s F irst c ontribution a Fter e ntry into the F und . Age of husband next birthday AGE OF WIFE NEXT BIRTHDAY 15 20 25 30 35 40 45 50 55 60 65 21 8.02 8.31 8.68 9.17 9.77 10.55 11.54 12.95 14.72 17.15 20.62 22 7.71 7.98 8.34 8.81 9.39 10.15 11.11 12.46 14.17 16.49 19.80 23 7.40 7.66 8.00 8.46 9.01 9.75 10.66 11.96 13.58 15.82 18.95 24 7.10 7.35 7.68 8.12 8.64 9.35 10.24 11.48 13.04 15.18 18.14 25 6.81 7.04 7.35 7.76 8.27 8.94 9.80 11.00 12.50 14.54 17.31 26 6.52 6.74 7.04 7.43 7.92 8.54 9.37 10.53 11.97 13.92 16.50 27 6.24 6.44 6.73 7.09 7.57 8.16 8.95 10.07 11.46 13.30 15.71 28 5.96 6.15 6.43 6.78 7.23 7.79 8.54 9.62 10.95 12.70 14.99 29 5.69 5.87 6.13 6.46 6.89 7.43 8.14 9.18 10.46 12.11 14.28 30 5.41 5.59 5.83 6.14 6.55 7.07 7.76 8.74 9.97 11.52 13.58 31 5.15 5.32 5.55 5.84 6.22 6.71 7.37 8.30 9.49 10.96 12.89 32 4.89 5.05 5.27 5.54 5.90 6.37 7.00 7.88 9.02 10.41 12.20 33 4.65 4.79 5.00 5.26 5.59 6.05 6.64 7.48 8.57 9.89 11.57 34 4.42 4.55 4.75 4.98 5.30 5.74 6.28 7.09 8.13 9.38 10.96 35 4.19 4.31 4.49 4.72 5.02 5.43 5.95 6.71 7.69 8.88 10.38 36 3.96 4.07 4.25 4.46 4.74 5.13 5.62 6.34 7.26 8.39 9.82 37 3.74 3.84 4.01 4.21 4.47 4.84 5.30 5.98 6.84 7.91 9.28 38 3.53 3.62 3.77 3.97 4.21 4.56 4.98 5.63 6.44 7.45 8.75 39 3.32 3.41 3.55 3.73 3.96 4.28 4.68 5.28 6.05 7.00 8.24 40 3.12 3.20 3.33 3.50 3.71 4.00 4.38 4.94 5.66 6.57 7.73 41 2.92 2.99 3.11 3.26 3.46 3.73 4.08 4.60 5.29 6.14 7.25 42 2.72 2.79 2.90 3.04 3.22 3.47 3.78 4.28 4.92 5.72 6.77 43 2.54 2.59 2.69 2.82 2.99 3.21 3.50 3.96 4.56 5.32 6.30 44 2.34 2.39 2.48 2.60 2.75 2.96 3.23 3.64 4.20 4.91 5.82 45 2.14 2.19 2.27 2.38 2.52 2.70 2.95 3.33 3.84 4.49 5.34 46 1.95 2.00 2.07 2.16 2.28 2.45 2.68 3.03 3.49 4.08 4.86 47 1.76 1.80 1.87 1.95 2.06 2.21 2.42 2.73 3.14 3.67 4.38 48 1.58 1.62 1.67 1.75 1.84 1.98 2.16 2.44 2.80 3.27 3.92 49 1.39 1.42 1.47 1.54 1.62 1.74 1.90 2.14 2.46 2.86 3.45 50 1.20 1.23 1.27 1.33 1.40 1.50 1.64 1.84 2.12 2.47 2.98 51 1.01 1.04 1.07 1.12 1.18 1.26 1.37 1.54 1.78 2.07 2.51 52 .82 .84 .87 .90 .95 1.02 1.11 1.25 1.44 1.68 2.04 53 .63 .64 .66 .69 .72 .77 .84 .95 1.09 1.27 1.55 54 .43 .44 .45 .47 .49 .52 .57 .64 .74 .87 1.06 55 .21 .22 .23 .24 .25 .27 .29 .33 .38 .44 .54

Widows and Orphans Pension 47 TABLE B t his s ection o F t able b is applicable only to the case o F o FFicers Who Will be a Ged 57 n ext b irthday , When they complete t heir p eriod o F c ontribution . t he y early p ension , payable by m onthly i nstalments , Which a y early c ontribution o F 1, payable also by m onthly i nstalments , Will secure . t he y early c ontribution is to cease on the t ermination o F 35 years From the d ate o F the o FFicer ’s F irst c ontribution a Fter e ntry into the F und . Age of husband next birthday AGE OF WIFE NEXT BIRTHDAY 15 20 25 30 35 40 45 50 55 60 65 22 7.74 8.01 8.37 8.84 9.42 10.19 11.15 12.51 14.22 16.55 19.87 23 7.43 7.70 8.04 8.49 9.05 9.78 10.71 12.02 13.65 15.90 19.04 24 7.13 7.38 7.70 8.14 8.67 9.38 10.28 11.53 13.09 15.23 18.21 25 6.84 7.07 7.39 7.80 8.31 8.98 9.84 11.05 12.56 14.61 17.39 26 6.56 6.77 7.08 7.47 7.97 8.59 9.42 10.59 12.04 13.99 16.59 27 6.28 6.48 6.78 7.14 7.62 8.21 9.01 10.13 11.53 13.38 15.82 28 6.00 6.19 6.47 6.82 7.28 7.84 8.60 9.68 11.03 12.79 15.09 29 5.73 5.90 6.17 6.50 6.93 7.46 8.20 9.24 10.53 12.19 14.37 30 5.46 5.63 5.88 6.19 6.60 7.12 7.82 8.80 10.05 11.61 13.69 31 5.20 5.36 5.60 5.89 6.28 6.77 7.44 8.38 9.58 11.06 13.00 32 4.94 5.10 5.32 5.59 5.96 6.44 7.07 7.96 9.12 10.52 12.33 33 4.70 4.85 5.06 5.32 5.66 6.11 6.71 7.57 8.67 10.00 11.70 34 4.47 4.60 4.80 5.04 5.36 5.80 6.36 7.18 8.22 9.49 11.09 35 4.24 4.36 4.55 4.78 5.08 5.50 6.02 6.80 7.79 9.00 10.51 36 4.02 4.13 4.31 4.53 4.81 5.21 5.70 6.44 7.37 8.52 9.97 37 3.80 3.91 4.07 4.28 4.55 4.92 5.38 6.08 6.96 8.04 9.43 38 3.60 3.69 3.85 4.04 4.30 4.64 5.08 5.74 6.57 7.59 8.92 39 3.39 3.48 3.62 3.81 4.05 4.37 4.78 5.39 6.18 7.15 8.41 40 3.19 3.27 3.40 3.58 3.80 4.09 4.48 5.05 5.80 6.72 7.91 41 3.00 3.07 3.19 3.35 3.56 3.83 4.19 4.72 5.43 6.31 7.45 42 2.81 2.87 2.98 3.13 3.32 3.57 3.90 4.41 5.07 5.90 6.98 43 2.62 2.68 2.78 2.91 3.09 3.32 3.62 4.09 4.72 5.50 6.52 44 2.44 2.49 2.58 2.70 2.86 3.08 3.36 3.79 4.37 5.11 6.06 45 2.25 2.30 2.38 2.49 2.64 2.83 3.09 3.49 4.02 4.71 5.59 46 2.06 2.11 2.18 2.28 2.41 2.59 2.83 3.19 3.68 4.30 5.12 47 1.88 1.92 1.99 2.08 2.19 2.36 2.57 2.90 3.35 3.91 4.66 48 1.70 1.74 1.80 1.88 1.98 2.12 2.32 2.62 3.01 3.52 4.21 49 1.52 1.55 1.61 1.68 1.77 1.90 2.07 2.34 2.69 3.13 3.77 50 1.34 1.37 1.42 1.48 1.56 1.67 1.82 2.05 2.36 2.75 3.32 51 1.16 1.19 1.23 1.28 1.34 1.44 1.57 1.77 2.04 2.37 2.87 52 .98 1.00 1.04 1.08 1.13 1.21 1.32 1.48 1.71 2.00 2.43 53 .79 .81 .84 .87 .92 .98 1.07 1.21 1.38 1.62 1.97 54 .61 .62 .64 .67 .70 .75 .81 .92 1.05 1.24 1.51 55 .41 .42 .44 .45 .47 .51 .55 62 .71 .84 1.02 56 .21 .22 .22 .23 .24 .26 .28 .32 .36 .43 .52

Laws of Malaysia 48 Act 681 TABLE B t his s ection o F t able b is applicable only to the case o F o FFicers Who Will be a Ged 58 next b irthday , When they complete their p eriod o F c ontribution . t he y early p ension , payable by m onthly i nstalments , Which a y early c ontribution o F 1, payable also by m onthly i nstalments , Will secure . t he y early c ontribution is to cease on the t ermination o F 35 years From the date o F the o FFicer ’s F irst c ontribution a Fter entry into the F und . Age of husband next birthday AGE OF WIFE NEXT BIRTHDAY 15 20 25 30 35 40 45 50 55 60 65 23 7.46 7.72 8.07 8.52 9.08 9.83 10.75 12.06 13.70 15.96 19.11 24 7.16 7.41 7.74 8.18 8.71 9.42 10.32 11.58 13.15 15.30 18.29 25 6.87 7.10 7.42 7.84 8.35 9.02 9.89 11.10 12.62 14.68 17.47 26 6.59 6.81 7.11 7.50 8.01 8.63 9.47 10.64 12.10 14.06 16.67 27 6.31 6.51 6.81 7.18 7.66 8.25 9.06 10.18 11.59 13.45 15.90 28 6.04 6.23 6.51 6.86 7.32 7.88 8.65 9.74 11.09 12.86 15.17 29 5.76 5.94 6.21 6.54 6.98 7.53 8.26 9.30 10.60 12.28 14.47 30 5.49 5.67 5.92 6.23 6.65 7.17 7.87 8.86 10.12 11.69 13.78 31 5.24 5.41 5.64 5.94 6.33 6.83 7.50 8.45 9.66 11.15 13.11 32 4.99 5.15 5.37 5.64 6.02 6.50 7.13 8.04 9.20 10.62 12.44 33 4.75 4.89 5.11 5.36 5.71 6.17 6.77 7.64 8.75 10.09 11.81 34 4.51 4.65 4.85 5.09 5.42 5.86 6.42 7.25 8.30 9.58 11.20 35 4.29 4.41 4.60 4.84 5.14 5.56 6.09 6.88 7.88 9.10 10.63 36 4.07 4.19 4.37 4.59 4.88 5.28 5.78 6.52 7.46 8.63 10.10 37 3.86 3.97 4.14 4.35 4.62 5.00 5.47 6.17 7.06 8.17 9.57 38 3.65 3.75 3.92 4.11 4.36 4.72 5.16 5.83 6.67 7.71 9.06 39 3.46 3.54 3.69 3.88 4.12 4.45 4.87 5.49 6.29 7.28 8.57 40 3.26 3.34 3.47 3.65 3.88 4.18 4.57 5.16 5.92 6.86 8.08 41 3.06 3.14 3.27 3.48 3.64 3.92 4.28 4.84 5.56 6.46 7.62 42 2.88 2.95 3.06 3.21 3.41 3.67 4.00 4.52 5.20 6.06 7.16 43 2.70 2.76 2.86 3.00 3.18 3.42 3.73 4.22 4.86 5.67 6.71 44 2.52 2.57 2.67 2.80 2.96 3.18 3.47 3.92 4.52 5.28 6.26 45 2.33 2.38 2.47 2.59 2.74 2.94 3.21 3.62 4.18 4.88 5.81 46 2.15 2.20 2.28 2.38 2.52 2.70 2.96 3.34 3.84 4.49 5.35 47 1.98 2.02 2.10 2.19 2.31 2.48 2.71 3.06 3.53 4.12 4.92 48 1.80 1.84 1.91 2.00 2.10 2.26 2.47 2.78 3.20 3.74 4.48 49 1.63 1.67 1.73 1.80 1.90 2.04 2.23 2.51 2.89 3.36 4.05 50 1.46 1.50 1.55 1.61 1.70 1.82 1.99 2.24 2.58 3.00 3.62 51 1.29 1.32 1.37 1.42 1.50 1.60 1.75 1.97 2.27 2.64 3.20 52 1.12 1.15 1.18 1.23 1.30 1.39 1.51 1.70 1.96 2.28 2.78 53 .94 .97 1.00 1.04 1.10 1.17 1.27 1.43 1.65 1.92 2.34 54 .77 .79 .81 .84 .89 .95 1.03 1.16 1.33 1.57 1.90 55 .58 .60 .62 .64 .68 .72 .78 .88 1.02 1.20 1.46 56 .40 .41 .42 .44 .46 .49 .53 .60 .69 .82 .99 57 .20 .21 .22 .23 .24 .25 .27 .30 .35 .42 .51

Widows and Orphans Pension 49 TABLE B t his s ection o F t able b is applicable only to the case o F o FFicers Who Will be a Ged 59 next b irthday , When they c omplete their period o F c ontribution . t he y early p ension , payable by m onthly i nstalments , Which a y early c ontribution o F 1, payable also by m onthly i nstalments , Will secure . t he y early c ontribution is to cease on the termination o F 35 years From the d ate o F the o FFicer ’s F irst c ontribution a Fter e ntry into the F und . Age of husband next birthday AGE OF WIFE NEXT BIRTHDAY 15 20 25 30 35 40 45 50 55 60 65 24 7.19 7.44 7.77 8.21 8.75 9.46 10.36 11.62 13.20 15.36 18.36 25 6.90 7.13 7.45 7.86 8.38 9.05 9.93 11.15 12.66 14.73 17.53 26 6.62 6.84 7.15 7.54 8.04 8.67 9.51 10.69 12.15 14.13 16.75 27 6.34 6.54 6.84 7.21 7.70 8.29 9.10 10.23 11.64 13.51 15.97 28 6.07 6.26 6.54 6.89 7.35 7.92 8.69 9.79 11.14 12.92 15.21 29 5.80 5.98 6.25 6.58 7.02 7.57 8.30 9.35 10.67 12.35 14.55 30 5.53 5.71 5.96 6.28 6.70 7.22 7.92 8.93 10.19 11.77 13.88 31 5.28 5.45 5.68 5.98 6.37 6.87 7.55 8.51 9.72 11.22 13.20 32 5.02 5.19 5.41 5.68 6.06 6.54 7.18 8.09 9.26 10.69 12.53 33 4.79 4.93 5.15 5.41 5.76 6.22 6.83 7.70 8.82 10.17 11.90 34 4.56 4.70 4.90 5.15 5.47 5.92 6.49 7.32 8.39 9.68 11.32 35 4.34 4.46 4.65 4.89 5.19 5.62 6.16 6.95 7.96 9.20 10.74 36 4.12 4.24 4.42 4.64 4.93 5.34 5.84 6.60 7.55 8.73 10.21 37 3.91 4.02 4.19 4.40 4.68 5.06 5.54 6.26 7.16 8.27 9.70 38 3.71 3.80 3.96 4.16 4.43 4.79 5.24 5.91 6.77 7.82 9.19 39 3.51 3.60 3.75 3.94 4.19 4.52 4.94 5.58 6.39 7.40 8.70 40 3.32 3.40 3.54 3.72 3.95 4.26 4.66 5.25 6.03 6.99 8.23 41 3.13 3.21 3.33 3.50 3.71 4.00 4.37 4.94 5.67 6.59 7.77 42 2.95 3.02 3.14 3.29 3.49 3.75 4.10 4.63 5.32 6.20 7.33 43 2.77 2.83 2.94 3.08 3.26 3.51 3.83 4.33 4.98 5.82 6.89 44 2.59 2.65 2.75 2.88 3.04 3.27 3.57 4.04 4.65 5.44 6.45 45 2.41 2.47 2.56 2.68 2.83 3.04 3.32 3.75 4.32 5.05 6.01 46 2.24 2.29 2.37 2.48 2.62 2.81 3.07 3.47 4.00 4.67 5.56 47 2.07 2.11 2.19 2.29 2.42 2.59 2.83 3.20 3.68 4.30 5.14 48 1.90 1.94 2.01 2.10 2.22 2.38 2.60 2.93 3.38 3.94 4.72 49 1.74 1.78 1.84 1.92 2.02 2.17 2.37 2.67 3.07 3.57 4.30 50 1.57 1.61 1.66 1.73 1.82 1.96 2.14 2.41 2.77 3.22 3.90 51 1.41 1.44 1.49 1.55 1.63 1.75 1.90 2.14 2.47 2.87 3.49 52 1.24 1.27 1.31 1.37 1.44 1.54 1.68 1.89 2.18 2.53 3.08 53 1.07 1.10 1.14 1.18 1.24 1.33 1.45 1.63 1.87 2.19 2.66 54 .91 .93 .96 1.00 1.05 1.12 1.22 1.38 1.58 1.86 2.26 55 .74 .76 .79 .81 .86 .91 99 1.12 1.29 1.52 1.85 56 .56 .58 60 .62 .65 .69 .75 .85 .98 1.16 1.41 57 .38 .39 .41 .42 .44 .47 51 .58 .67 .79 .96 58 .20 .20 .21 .22 .23 .24 .26 .30 .34 .41 .50

Laws of Malaysia 50 Act 681 TABLE B t his s ection o F t able b i s applicable only to the case o F o FFicers Who Will be a Ged 60 next b irthday , When they c omplete their p eriod o F c ontribution . t he y early p ension , payable by m onthly i nstalments , Which a y early c ontribution o F 1, payable also by m onthly i nstalments , Will secure . t he y early c ontribution is to cease on the t ermination o F 35 years From the d ate o F the o FFicer ’s F irst c ontribution a Fter e ntry into the F und . Age of husband next birthday AGE OF WIFE NEXT BIRTHDAY 15 20 25 30 35 40 45 50 55 60 65 25 6.92 7.16 7.48 7.89 8.41 9.09 9.96 11.19 12.71 14.79 17.60 26 6.64 6.86 7.17 7.57 8.07 8.71 9.55 10.73 12.20 14.18 16.81 27 6.37 6.58 6.88 7.25 7.73 8.33 9.14 10.28 11.70 13.58 16.05 28 6.10 6.29 6.58 6.93 7.39 7.96 8.74 9.83 11.20 12.99 15.32 29 5.83 6.00 6.28 6.61 7.06 7.61 8.34 9.40 10.72 12.41 14.62 30 5.56 5.73 5.99 6.31 6.73 7.26 7.96 8.97 10.24 11.83 13.94 31 5.31 5.48 5.72 6.02 6.41 6.91 7.59 8.56 9.78 11.29 13.28 32 5.06 5.22 5.45 5.72 6.10 6.59 7.23 8.15 9.33 10.76 12.62 33 4.83 4.97 5.19 5.45 5.80 6.27 6.88 7.76 8.89 10.26 12.00 34 4.60 4.74 4.94 5.19 5.52 5.97 6.54 7.38 8.46 9.76 11.41 35 4.38 4.50 4.70 4.94 5.24 5.68 6.22 7.04 8.04 9.28 10.85 36 4.16 4.28 4.47 4.69 4.98 5.40 5.91 6.67 7.63 8.82 10.32 37 3.96 4.06 4.24 4.45 4.73 5.12 5.60 6.32 7.23 8.36 9.80 38 3.76 3.85 4.02 4.22 4.48 4.85 5.30 5.99 6.85 7.92 9.31 39 3.56 3.65 3.80 4.00 4.25 4.58 5.01 5.66 6.48 7.50 8.83 40 3.37 3.46 3.60 3.78 4.01 4.32 4.73 5.34 6.12 7.10 8.36 41 3.19 3.26 3.39 3.56 3.78 4.07 4.45 5.02 5.77 6.70 7.91 42 3.01 3.08 3.20 3.36 3.56 3.83 4.18 4.72 5.43 6.32 7.48 43 2.84 2.90 3.01 3.15 3.34 3.59 3.92 4.43 5.10 5.95 7.05 44 2.66 2.72 2.82 2.95 3.12 3.36 3.67 4.14 4.77 5.58 6.62 45 2.49 2.54 2.64 2.76 2.92 3.13 3.42 3.86 4.45 5.21 6.19 46 2.31 2.36 2.45 2.56 2.70 2.90 3.17 3.58 4.13 4.83 5.75 47 2.15 2.20 2.27 2.38 2.51 2.69 2.94 3.32 3.83 4.47 5.34 48 1.98 2.03 2.10 2.20 2.31 2.48 2.71 3.06 3.52 4.11 4.92 49 1.82 1.87 1.93 2.02 2.12 2.28 2.49 2.80 3.23 3.76 4.52 50 1.67 1.71 1.76 1.84 1.94 2.08 2.28 2.55 2.94 3.42 4.13 51 1.51 1.55 1.60 1.66 1.75 1.88 2.06 2.30 2.65 3.08 3.74 52 1.35 1.39 1.43 1.49 1.57 1.68 1.83 2.05 2.37 2.76 3.36 53 1.20 1.23 1.27 1.32 1.38 1.48 1.61 1.81 2.09 2.44 2.97 54 1.04 1.07 1.10 1.14 1.20 1.28 1.40 1.57 1.81 2.13 2.58 55 .88 .90 .93 .97 1.02 1.08 1.18 1.33 1.53 1.80 2.19 56 .72 .73 .75 .78 .83 .88 .96 1.08 1.24 1.46 1.78 57 .55 .56 .58 .60 .63 .67 .73 .82 .95 1.12 1.37 58 .37 .38 .39 .41 .43 .46 .50 .56 .65 .76 .93 59 .19 .20 .20 .21 .22 .23 .25 29 .33 .39 .48

Widows and Orphans Pension 51 TABLE B t his s ection o F t able b is applicable only to the case o F o FFicers Who Will be a Ged 61 next b irthday , When they complete their p eriod o F c ontribution . t he y early p ension , payable by m onthly i nstalments , Which a y early c ontribution o F 1, payable also by m onthly i nstalments , Will secure . t he y early c ontribution is to cease on the t ermination o F 35 years From the date o F the o FFicer ’s F irst c ontribution a Fter e ntry into the F und . Age of husband next birthday AGE OF WIFE NEXT BIRTHDAY 15 20 25 30 35 40 45 50 55 60 65 26 6.67 6.88 7.19 7.59 8.08 8.73 9.57 10.76 12.23 14.22 16.86 27 6.39 6.60 6.90 7.27 7.75 8.36 9.18 10.32 11.74 13.63 16.11 28 6.12 6.31 6.60 6.95 7.42 7.99 8.77 9.87 11.24 13.03 15.38 29 5.86 6.04 6.31 6.64 7.09 7.64 8.38 9.44 10.77 12.47 14.69 30 5.59 5.77 6.02 6.34 6.76 7.29 8.00 9.01 10.29 11.89 14.01 31 5.34 5.51 5.75 6.05 6.45 6.95 7.64 8.61 9.84 11.36 13.36 32 5.10 5.25 5.48 5.76 6.14 6.62 7.27 8.20 9.38 10.83 12.69 33 4.86 5.01 5.23 5.49 5.85 6.32 6.93 7.82 8.95 10.33 12.09 34 4.63 4.77 4.98 5.22 5.56 6.01 6.59 7.44 8.52 9.83 11.49 35 4.41 4.54 4.74 4.98 5.29 5.72 6.27 7.07 8.10 9.36 10.93 36 4.20 4.32 4.50 4.73 5.03 5.44 5.96 6.73 7.70 8.90 10.41 37 4.00 4.10 4.28 4.50 4.78 5.17 5.66 6.39 7.31 8.45 9.91 38 3.80 3.90 4.06 4.27 4.53 4.90 5.36 6.05 6.93 8.01 9.41 39 3.60 3.69 3.85 4.05 4.30 4.64 5.08 5.73 6.56 7.60 8.93 40 3.42 3.50 3.64 3.83 4.06 4.38 4.80 5.41 6.21 7.19 8.47 41 3.24 3.32 3.45 3.62 3.84 4.14 4.52 5.10 5.86 6.81 8.03 42 3.06 3.13 3.26 3.41 3.62 3.90 4.25 4.81 5.53 6.43 7.61 43 2.89 2.95 3.06 3.21 3.40 3.66 4.00 4.52 5.20 6.07 7.18 44 2.72 2.78 2.88 3.02 3.20 3.44 3.75 4.24 4.88 5.71 6.77 45 2.55 2.60 2.70 2.82 2.99 3.21 3.50 3.96 4.56 5.33 6.34 46 2.38 2.43 2.52 2.64 2.78 2.99 3.27 3.69 4.25 4.97 5.92 47 2.22 2.27 2.35 2.46 2.59 2.78 3.04 3.43 3.96 4.62 5.51 48 2.06 2.11 2.18 2.28 2.40 2.58 2.82 3.18 3.66 4.27 5.12 49 1.90 1.95 2.02 2.11 2.22 2.38 2.60 2.93 3.38 3.93 4.73 50 1.75 1.80 1.86 1.94 2.04 2.18 2.38 2.69 3.09 3.60 4.35 51 1.60 1.64 1.70 1.77 1.86 1.99 2.17 2.44 2.82 3.28 3.98 52 1.45 1.49 1.54 1.60 1.68 1.80 1.96 2.21 2.54 2.96 3.61 53 1.30 1.34 1.38 1.43 1.51 1.61 1.76 1.97 2.27 2.65 3.23 54 1.15 1.18 1.22 1.27 1.33 1.42 1.55 1.74 2.01 2.36 2.86 55 1.00 1.03 1.06 1.10 1.16 1.23 1.34 1.51 1.74 2.05 2.49 56 .85 .87 .90 .93 .98 1.04 1.13 1.28 1.47 1.74 2.11 57 .71 .72 .73 .76 .80 .85 .92 1.04 1.20 1.42 1.73 58 .53 .54 .55 .58 .61 .65 .70 .79 .92 1.08 1.33 59 .36 .37 .38 .40 .42 .44 .48 .54 .62 .74 .91 60 .18 .19 .20 .20 .21 .22 .24 .28 .32 .38 .46

Laws of Malaysia 52 Act 681 TABLE B t his s ection o F t able b is applicable only to the case o F o FFicers Who Will be a Ged 62 n ext b irthday , When they c omplete their p eriod o F c ontribution . t he y early p ension , payable by m onthly i nstalments , Which a y early c ontribution o F 1, payable also by monthly i nstalments , Will secure . t he y early c ontribution is to cease on the t ermination o F 35 years From the date o F the o FFicer ’s F irst c ontribution a Fter e ntry into the F und . Age of husband next birthday AGE OF WIFE NEXT BIRTHDAY 15 20 25 30 35 40 45 50 55 60 65 27 6.41 6.62 6.92 7.29 7.78 8.38 9.20 10.35 11.78 13.66 16.15 28 6.14 6.33 6.62 6.98 7.44 8.02 8.80 9.91 11.28 13.08 15.43 29 5.88 6.06 6.33 6.67 7.12 7.68 8.42 9.48 10.81 12.51 14.75 30 5.61 5.79 6.05 6.37 6.79 7.32 8.04 9.06 10.33 11.94 14.11 31 5.36 5.54 5.78 6.08 6.48 6.99 7.68 8.65 9.89 11.41 13.42 32 5.12 5.28 5.51 5.79 6.17 6.66 7.32 8.24 9.44 10.89 12.76 33 4.89 5.04 5.26 5.52 5.88 6.35 6.97 7.86 9.00 10.39 12.16 34 4.66 4.80 5.01 5.26 5.60 6.06 6.64 7.49 8.58 9.90 11.57 35 4.44 4.57 4.77 5.01 5.32 5.76 6.31 7.12 8.16 9.43 11.01 36 4.23 4.35 4.54 4.77 5.07 5.48 6.00 6.78 7.76 8.97 10.49 37 4.03 4.14 4.32 4.54 4.82 5.21 5.71 6.44 7.37 8.52 9.99 38 3.84 3.94 4.10 4.31 4.58 4.95 5.42 6.12 7.00 8.10 9.51 39 3.64 3.73 3.89 4.09 4.34 4.69 5.13 5.79 6.63 7.68 9.03 40 3.46 3.54 3.69 3.88 4.12 4.44 4.85 5.48 6.28 7.28 8.58 41 3.28 3.36 3.49 3.67 3.89 4.19 4.58 5.17 5.94 6.90 8.14 42 3.11 3.18 3.30 3.47 3.68 3.96 4.32 4.88 5.61 6.53 7.72 43 2.94 3.00 3.12 3.27 3.46 3.72 4.06 4.59 5.29 6.17 7.30 44 2.77 2.83 2.94 3.08 3.26 3.50 3.82 4.32 4.97 5.82 6.90 45 2.60 2.66 2.76 2.89 3.05 3.28 3.58 4.04 4.66 5.45 6.48 46 2.44 2.49 2.58 2.70 2.85 3.06 3.35 3.78 4.36 5.09 6.06 47 2.28 2.33 2.42 2.53 2.66 2.86 3.13 3.53 4.07 4.75 5.67 48 2.13 2.18 2.26 2.36 2.49 2.67 2.92 3.29 3.79 4.42 5.30 49 1.98 2.03 2.10 2.19 2.31 2.48 2.70 3.05 3.51 4.08 4.92 50 1.83 1.88 1.94 2.02 2.12 2.28 2.49 2.80 3.23 3.76 4.54 51 1.68 1.72 1.78 1.86 1.95 2.09 2.28 2.57 2.96 3.44 4.18 52 1.54 1.58 1.63 1.70 1.79 1.91 2.08 2.34 2.70 3.14 3.82 53 1.40 1.43 1.48 1.54 1.62 1.73 1.88 2.12 2.44 2.85 3.47 54 1.26 1.29 1.33 1.38 1.45 1.55 1.68 1.90 2.18 2.56 3.12 55 1.11 1.14 1.18 1.22 1.28 1.37 1.49 1.67 1.93 2.27 2.76 56 .97 .99 1.02 1.06 1.11 1.19 1.29 1.45 1.67 1.98 2.41 57 .82 .84 .87 .90 .94 1.00 1.09 1.23 1.42 1.68 2.04 58 .67 .69 .71 .73 .77 .82 .89 1.00 1.16 1.37 1.68 59 .51 .52 .54 .56 .59 .63 .68 .76 .88 1.05 1.29 60 .35 .36 .37 .38 .40 .43 .46 .52 .60 .72 .88 61 .18 .18 .19 .20 .21 .22 .24 .27 .31 .37 .45

Widows and Orphans Pension 53 TABLE B t his s ection o F t able b is applicable only to the case o F o FFicers Who Will be a Ged 63 next b irthday , When they complete their p eriod o F c ontribution . t he y early p ension , payable by m onthly i nstalments , Which a y early c ontribution o F 1, payable also by the m onthly i nstalments , Will secure , t he y early c ontribution is to cease on the t ermination o F 35 years From the date o F the o FFicer ’s F irst c ontribution a Fter e ntry into the F und . Age of husband next birthday AGE OF WIFE NEXT BIRTHDAY 15 20 25 30 35 40 45 50 55 60 65 28 6.17 6.36 6.65 7.00 7.47 8.05 8.84 9.94 11.32 13.13 15.50 29 5.90 6.09 6.36 6.70 7.14 7.70 8.45 9.52 10.85 12.56 14.80 30 5.63 5.81 6.07 6.39 6.82 7.35 8.07 9.09 10.38 11.99 14.13 31 5.38 5.56 5.80 6.10 6.50 7.01 7.70 8.68 9.92 11.45 13.47 32 5.14 5.31 5.54 5.82 6.20 6.70 7.35 8.28 9.48. 10.94 12.83 33 4.91 5.06 5.29 5.55 5.91 6.39 7.01 7.90 9.05 10.44 12.22 34 4.69 4.83 5.04 5.29 5.62 6.08 6.67 7.52 8.62 9.95 11.63 35 4.47 4.60 4.80 5.04 5.36 5.80 6.35 7.16 8.21 9.48 11.08 36 4.26 4.38 4.57 4.80 5.10 5.53 6.05 6.83 7.81 9.04 10.57 37 4.06 4.17 4.35 4.57 4.86 5.26 5.75 6.50 7.43 8.59 10.07 38 3.87 3.97 4.14 4.35 4.62 5.00 5.47 6.17 7.06 8.16 9.59 39 3.68 3.77 3.93 4.13 4.39 4.74 5.18 5.84 6.70 7.75 9.12 40 3.50 3.58 3.73 3.92 4.16 4.48 4.91 5.54 6.35 7.36 8.67 41 3.32 3.40 3.54 3.71 3.94 4.24 4.64 5.24 6.02 6.98 8.24 42 3.15 3.22 3.35 3.51 3.72 4.01 4.38 4.94 5.69 6.62 7.83 43 2.98 3.05 3.17 3.32 3.52 3.78 4.13 4.66 5.37 6.27 7.42 44 2.82 2.88 2.99 3.13 3.31 3.56 3.88 4.39 5.06 5.91 7.02 45 2.65 2.71 2.81 2.94 3.11 3.34 3.65 4.12 4.75 5.55 6.60 46 2.49 2.55 2.64 2.76 2.91 3.13 3.42 3.86 4.45 5.20 6.19 47 2.34 2.39 2.48 2.59 2.73 2.93 3.20 3.62 4.17 4.87 5.81 48 2.19 2.24 2.32 2.42 2.55 2.74 2.99 3.38 3.89 4.54 5.43 49 2.04 2.09 2.16 2.26 2.37 2.55 2.78 3.14 3.61 4.20 5.06 50 1.90 1.94 2.01 2.10 2.20 2.36 2.58 2.91 3.35 3.90 4.71 51 1.76 1.80 1.86 1.94 2.04 2.18 2.38 2.68 3.09 3.59 4.36 52 1.62 1.66 1.71 1.78 1.87 2.00 2.18 2.46 2.83 3.30 4.01 53 1.48 1.52 1.57 1.63 1.71 1.83 1.99 2.24 2.58 3.01 3.67 54 1.34 1.38 1.42 1.48 1.55 1.66 1.80 2.03 2.34 2.75 3.34 55 1.21 1.24 1.28 1.33 1.40 1.49 1.62 1.83 2.10 2.47 3.01 56 1.07 1.10 1.13 1.17 1.23 1.32 1.43 1.61 1.85 2.19 2.66 57 .93 .96 .99 1.02 1.08 1.14 1.24 1.40 1.61 1.91 2.33 58 .79 .81 .84 .87 .91 .97 1.05 1.18 1.37 1.62 1.98 59 .64 .66 .68 .71 .74 .79 .86 .96 1.12 1.32 1.62 60 .49 .50 .52 .54 .57 .60 .65 .74 .86 1.02 1.24 61 .34 .35 .36 .37 .39 .41 .45 .51 .59 .70 .86 62 .17 .18 .18 .19 .20 .21 .23 .26 .30 .36 .44

Laws of Malaysia 54 Act 681 TABLE B t his s ection o F t able b i s applicable only to the case o F o FFicers Who Will be a Ged 64 next b irthday , When they c omplete their period o F c ontribution . t he y early p ension , payable by m onthly i nstalments , Which a y early c ontribution o F 1, payable also by m onthly i nstalments , Will secure . t he y early c ontribution is to cease on the t ermination o F 35 y ears From the date o F the o FFicer ’s F irst c ontribution a Fter e ntry into the F und . Age of husband next birthday AGE OF WIFE NEXT BIRTHDAY 15 20 25 30 35 40 45 50 55 60 65 29 5.92 6.10 6.37 6.71 7.16 7.72 8.47 9.54 10.88 12.60 14.85 30 5.66 5.84 6.09 6.41 6.84 7.38 8.10 9.12 10.41 12.03 14.18 31 5.40 5.58 5.82 6.13 6.53 7.04 7.73 8.71 9.96 11.50 13.52 32 5.16 5.33 5.56 5.84 6.22 6.72 7.38 8.32 9.52 10.99 12.88 33 4.93 5.08 5.31 5.57 5.93 6.41 7.04 7.94 9.09 10.48 12.27 34 4.71 4.85 5.06 5.32 5.65 6.12 6.70 7.56 8.67 10.00 11.69 35 4.50 4.63 4.82 5.07 5.39 5.83 6.39 7.21 8.26 9.54 11.15 36 4.29 4.41 4.60 4.83 5.14 5.56 6.09 6.87 7.86 9.09 10.63 37 4.09 4.20 4.38 4.60 4.89 5.29 5.79 6.54 7.48 8.65 10.13 38 3.90 4.00 4.17 4.38 4.65 5.03 5.51 6.21 7.11 8.22 9.66 39 3.71 3.80 3.96 4.16 4.42 4.78 5.23 5.90 6.76 7.82 9.20 40 3.53 3.61 3.76 3.95 4.20 4.52 4.95 5.58 6.40 7.42 8.74 41 3.36 3.44 3.57 3.75 3.98 4.28 4.68 5.29 6.07 7.05 8.32 42 3.18 3.26 3.39 3.55 3.77 4.05 4.42 5.00 5.75 6.69 7.91 43 3.02 3.09 3.21 3.36 3.56 3.83 4.18 4.72 5.44 6.35 7.51 44 2.86 2.92 3.03 3.17 3.36 3.61 3.94 4.45 5.13 6.00 7.11 45 2.70 2.76 2.86 2.99 3.16 3.40 3.71 4.19 4.83 5.65 6.71 46 2.53 2.59 2.69 2.81 2.97 3.19 3.48 3.93 4.53 5.30 6.31 47 2.38 2.44 2.53 2.64 2.78 2.99 3.27 3.69 4.25 4.97 5.93 48 2.24 2.29 2.37 2.48 2.61 2.80 3.06 3.46 3.98 4.64 5.56 49 2.10 2.14 2.22 2.32 2.44 2.62 2.86 3.22 3.71 4.31 5.20 50 1.96 2.00 2.07 2.16 2.27 2.44 2.66 3.00 3.45 4.02 4.85 51 1.83 1.87 1.93 2.01 2.11 2.26 2.47 2.78 3.20 3.72 4.52 52 1.69 1.73 1.78 1.86 1.95 2.09 2.28 2.56 2.96 3.44 4.19 53 1.55 1.59 1.64 1.71 1.80 1.92 2.09 2.35 2.71 3.16 3.86 54 1.42 1.46 1.51 1.56 1.64 1.76 1.91 2.15 2.48 2.91 3.54 55 1.29 1.33 1.37 1.42 1.49 1.59 1.73 1.95 2.24 2.64 3.22 56 1.16 1.19 1.23 1.28 1.34 1.43 1.55 1.75 2.01 2.39 2.90 57 1.03 1.06 1.09 1.13 1.19 1.26 1.37 1.55 1.78 2.11 2.57 58 .90 .92 .95 .99 1.04 1.10 1.19 1.35 1.55 1.84 2.25 59 .76 .78 .81 .84 .88 .93 1.01 1.14 1.32 1.56 1.92 60 .62 .64 .66 .69 .72 .76 .83 .93 1.08 1.28 1.57 61 .48 .49 .51 .53 .55 .58 .63 .71 .83 .99 1.22 62 .33 .34 .35 .36 .38 .40 .43 .49 .57 .68 .84 63 .17 .17 .18 .19 .20 .21 .22 .25 .29 .35 .44

Widows and Orphans Pension 55 TABLE B t his s ection o F t able b is applicable only to the case o F o FFicers Who Will be a Ged 65 next b irthday , When they c omplete their p eriod o F c ontribution . t he y early p ension , payable by m onthly i nstalments , Which a y early c ontribution o F 1, payable also by m onthly i nstalments , Will secure . t he y early c ontribution is to cease on the t ermination o F 35 years From the date o F the o FFicer ’s F irst c ontribution a Fter e ntry into the F und , or on his a ttainin G the a Ge o F 65. Age of husband next birthday AGE OF WIFE NEXT BIRTHDAY 15 20 25 30 35 40 45 50 55 60 65 30 5.67 5.86 6.11 6.43 6.86 7.40 8.12 9.15 10.44 12.07 14.23 31 5.42 5.60 5.84 6.14 6.55 7.06 7.76 8.74 9.99 11.53 13.56 32 5.18 5.35 5.58 5.86 6.25 6.75 7.41 8.35 9.56 11.03 12.93 33 4.95 5.10 5.33 5.59 5.95 6.44 7.06 7.97 9.12 10.52 12.31 34 4.73 4.87 5.08 5.34 5.68 6.14 6.73 7.60 8.71 10.05 11.74 35 4.52 4.65 4.85 5.10 5.42 5.86 6.42 7.24 8.28 9.59 11.20 36 4.31 4.43 4.62 4.86 5.16 5.59 6.12 6.91 7.90 9.14 10.69 37 4.11 4.23 4.41 4.63 4.92 5.32 5.82 6.58 7.52 8.70 10.20 38 3.92 4.02 4.19 4.41 4.68 5.06 5.54 6.25 7.16 8.27 9.72 39 3.74 3.83 3.99 4.19 4.46 4.81 5.26 5.94 6.80 7.88 9.26 40 3.56 3.65 3.79 3.99 4.23 4.56 4.99 5.63 6.46 7.49 8.82 41 3.39 3.47 3.60 3.78 4.01 4.32 4.72 5.34 6.13 7.12 8.40 42 3.22 3.29 3.42 3.59 3.80 4.10 4.47 5.05 5.81 6.76 7.99 43 3.06 3.12 3.24 3.40 3.60 3.87 4.23 4.78 5.50 6.42 7.60 44 2.90 2.96 3.07 3.21 3.40 3.66 3.99 4.51 5.19 6.07 7.20 45 2.74 2.80 2.90 3.03 3.21 3.44 3.76 4.25 4.89 5.73 6.81 46 2.57 2.63 2.73 2.85 3.01 3.24 3.54 3.99 4.60 5.38 6.41 47 2.42 2.48 2.57 2.69 2.84 3.05 3.33 3.76 4.33 5.06 6.04 48 2.28 2.34 2.42 2.53 2.66 2.86 3.12 3.52 4.06 4.74 5.67 49 2.14 2.20 2.27 2.37 2.50 2.68 2.93 3.30 3.80 4.42 5.32 50 2.00 2.06 2.13 2.22 2.33 2.50 2.73 3.08 3.54 4.12 4.98 51 1.88 1.92 1.99 2.07 2.18 2.33 2.54 2.86 3.30 3.84 4.66 52 1.75 1.79 1.85 1.92 2.02 2.17 2.36 2.65 3.06 3.56 4.34 53 1.62 1.66 1.71 1.78 1.87 2.00 2.18 2.45 2.83 3.30 4.02 54 1.49 1.53 1.58 1.64 1.72 1.84 2.00 2.25 2.60 3.05 3.71 55 1.37 1.40 1.45 1.50 1.58 1.68 1.83 2.06 2.37 2.80 3.40 56 1.25 1.28 1.32 1.37 1.44 1.53 1.66 1.87 2.16 2.54 3.10 57 1.12 1.15 1.18 1.23 1.29 1.37 1.49 1.68 1.94 2.29 2.79 58 .99 1.02 1.05 1.09 1.15 1.22 1.32 1.49 1.72 2.04 2.49 59 .86 .89 .92 .95 1.00 1.06 1.15 1.29 1.50 1.78 2.18 60 .74 .76 .78 .81 .85 .90 .97 1.10 1.28 1.51 1.85 61 .60 .62 .64 .66 .69 .73 .80 .90 1.04 1.24 1.53 62 .47 .48 .49 .51 .53 .56 .61 .69 .80 .96 1.18 63 .32 .33 .34 .35 .37 .39 .42 .47 .55 .66 .82 64 .16 .17 .17 .18 .19 .20 .22 .24 .28 .34 .43

Laws of Malaysia 56 Act 681 TABLE C t he s in Gle c ontribution Which Will secure a y early p ension o F 1, payable by monthly i nstalments . Age of husband next birthday AGE OF WIFE NEXT BIRTHDAY 15 20 25 30 35 40 45 50 55 60 65 15 1.154 1,111 1.064 1.010 .948 .882 .808 .720 .627 .536 .446 16 1.185 1.142 1.092 1.037 .973 .904 .828 .739 .645 .552 .457 17 1.218 1.175 1.123 1.066 1.000 .928 .849 .759 .664 .569 .469 18 1.254 1.209 1.156 1.097 1.029 .955 .873 .780 .683 .586 .482 19 1.291 1.246 1.192 1.132 1.060 .984 .899 .801 .704 .603 .498 20 1.331 1.284 1.229 1.166 1.092 1.013 .926 .824 .726 .622 .516 21 1.373 1.325 1.268 1.201 1.127 1.044 .954 .850 .748 .642 .534 22 1.418 1.369 1.310 1.241 1.164 1.077 .984 .877 .772 .663 .552 23 1.465 1.415 1.355 1.282 1.203 1.112 1.017 .906 .798 .685 .572 24 1.515 1.464 1.402 1.326 1.245 1.151 1.051 .937 .825 .709 .593 25 1.566 1.515 1.450 1.373 1.289 1.193 1.088 .969 .853 .733 .616 26 1.619 1.568 1.500 1.422 1.333 1.236 1.127 1.003 .882 .759 .640 27 1.675 1.623 1.552 1.473 1.380 1.281 1.167 1.038 .912 .786 .665 28 1.734 1.681 1.608 1.526 1.431 1.328 1.210 1.075 .944 .814 .690 29 1.797 1.742 1.668 1.583 1.484 1.376 1.255 1.114 .977 .844 .716 30 1.864 1.805 1.730 1.643 1.540 1.428 1.301 1.155 1.012 .876 .743 31 1.932 1.871 1.793 1.704 1.599 1.483 1.350 1.198 1.048 .908 .772 32 2.002 1.940 1.859 1.770 1.661 1.538 1.401 1.243 1.086 .941 .803 33 2.074 2.013 1.928 1.836 1.725 1.596 1.454 1.289 1.126 .976 .834 34 2.149 2.087 2.000 1.904 1.791 1.655 1.510 1.338 1.168 1.012 .866 35 2.226 2.164 2.074 1.974 1.858 1.716 1.567 1.389 1.212 1.049 .898 36 2.305 2.243 2.150 2.046 1.926 1.779 1.625 1.439 1.258 1.088 .930 37 2.387 2.324 2.229 2.121 1.996 1.845 1.686 1.493 1.305 1.129 .963 38 2.471 2.408 2.311 2.199 2.069 1.914 1.749 1.550 1.354 1.171 .997 39 2.558 2.496 2.396 2.280 2.145 1.987 1.816 1.610 1.405 1.214 1.032 40 2.647 2.584 2.484 2.364 2.226 2.065 1.887 1.673 1.458 1.258 1.068 41 2.738 2.675 2.574 2.452 2.311 2.145 1.963 1.738 1.513 1.303 1.104 42 2.832 2.770 2.667 2.542 2.398 2.227 2.041 1.806 1.570 1.349 1.141 43 2.931 2.868 2.763 2.636 2.488 2.313 2.120 1.876 1.629 1.396 1.179 44 3.033 2.968 2.862 2.733 2.582 2.402 2.201 1.948 1.691 1.446 1.219 45 3.141 3.073 2.964 2.833 2.679 2.494 2.284 2.023 1.755 1.500 1.262 46 3.253 3.182 3.070 2.936 2.780 2.588 2.369 2.099 1.821 1.558 1.308 47 3.367 3.292 3.179 3.041 2.883 2.683 2.456 2.177 1.889 1.617 1.355 48 3.484 3.404 3.290 3.148 2.989 2.782 2.547 2.258 1.961 1.680 1.403 49 3.603 3.520 3.403 3.260 3.097 2.883 2.642 2.342 2.035 1.750 1.452 50 3.724 3.638 3.519 3.375 3.209 2.989 2.739 2.431 2.111 1.815 1.502 51 3.849 3.757 3.638 3.493 3.320 3.098 2.841 2.525 2.190 1.883 1.552 52 3.977 3.878 3.759 3.613 3.435 3.208 2.945 2.619 2.271 1.950 1.603 53 4.107 4.004 3.882 3.735 3.552 3.321 3.049 2.713 2.353 2.017 1.655 54 4.239 4.133 4.008 3.860 3.671 3.437 3.158 2.808 2.437 2.074 1.707 55 4.376 4.265 4.137 3.988 3.792 3.555 3.269 2.905 2.523 2.141 1.759 56 4.516 4.401 4.269 4.115 3.914 3.674 3.382 3.002 2.608 2.208 1.812 57 4.658 4.540 4.402 4.242 4.036 3.796 3.497 3.101 2.691 2.275 1.865 58 4.804 4.680 4.536 4.370 4.160 3.920 3.613 3.203 2.774 2.342 1.917 59 4.954 4.822 4.673 4.500 4.287 4.046 3.731 3.308 2.858 2.409 1.968 60 5.108 4.966 4.812 4.632 4.417 4.174 3.850 3.414 2.942 2.476 2.018 61 5.264 5.112 4.952 4.765 4.548 4.302 3.971 3.522 3.027 2.543 2.067 62 5.422 5.259 5.093 4.898 4.680 4.431 4.095 3.638 3.117 2.610 2.114 63 5.582 5.408 5.235 5.031 4.813 4.560 4.222 3.754 3.213 2.677 2.160 64 5.745 5.558 5.387 5.180 4.947 4.689 4.352 3.873 3.314 2.744 2.204

Widows and Orphans Pension 57 SCHEDULE [s ection 4] TABLE D t he p ercenta Ge o F c ontributions to be r e Funded to c ontributors Who Were m arried at e ntry and c urrently m arried Age Next Birthday Attained AGE NEXT BIRTHDAY AT ENTRY 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 36 37 38 39 40 41 42 43 44 45 46 47 48 49 50 51 52 53 54 55 56 57 58 59 60 61 62 63 64 65 20 62 21 64 63 22 66 65 65 23 68 67 66 66 24 70 69 68 67 67 25 72 71 70 69 68 68 26 74 73 72 71 70 69 69 27 76 75 74 73 72 71 70 69 28 78 77 76 74 73 72 71 70 70 29 80 79 78 77 75 74 73 72 71 70 30 82 81 80 79 78 76 75 74 73 72 71 31 84 83 82 81 80 78 77 76 75 74 73 72 32 87 85 84 83 82 81 79 78 77 76 75 74 73 33 89 88 87 86 84 83 82 80 79 78 76 75 74 73 34 91 90 89 88 86 85 84 82 81 80 78 77 76 75 74 35 93 92 91 90 88 87 86 84 83 82 80 79 77 76 75 74 36 95 94 93 92 90 89 88 86 85 84 82 80 79 78 76 75 74 37 96 95 94 94 92 91 90 88 87 85 84 82 80 79 78 76 75 74 38 98 97 96 95 94 92 91 90 88 87 85 84 82 81 79 78 76 75 74 39 99 98 97 97 96 94 93 92 90 89 87 86 84 83 81 79 78 76 75 74 40 101 100 99 98 97 96 95 93 92 91 89 88 86 84 83 81 80 78 77 76 74 41 103 102 101 100 99 98 96 95 94 92 91 89 88 87 85 84 82 80 79 78 76 74 42 105 104 103 102 101 99 98 97 96 94 94 91 90 89 88 86 84 83 81 80 78 76 74 43 106 105 104 103 102 101 100 99 98 97 96 95 94 92 90 88 87 85 84 82 80 78 76 74 44 108 107 106 105 104 103 102 101 100 99 97 96 95 94 92 90 89 87 85 84 82 80 78 76 74 45 109 108 107 106 105 104 103 102 101 100 99 98 97 95 94 92 90 89 87 85 83 81 79 77 75 74 46 110 109 108 107 106 105 104 103 103 102 100 99 98 97 95 94 92 91 88 86 83 82 81 78 76 74 72 47 111 110 109 109 108 107 106 105 104 103 102 101 100 99 97 95 93 92 89 87 84 83 81 78 76 74 72 69 48 112 111 110 110 109 108 107 106 105 104 103 102 100 99 98 96 94 92 90 88 85 83 81 79 76 74 73 70 68 49 112 112 111 111 110 109 108 107 106 104 103 102 101 100 98 97 95 93 91 89 87 84 82 79 77 74 74 71 69 67 50 113 113 112 112 111 110 109 108 107 105 104 103 102 100 99 98 96 94 92 90 88 86 83 80 77 74 75 74 70 68 66 51 114 113 113 112 111 111 109 108 107 105 105 103 102 100 99 98 96 94 92 90 90 86 84 81 78 76 76 73 71 68 66 64 52 115 114 113 112 112 112 110 108 107 106 105 104 103 101 99 98 96 94 92 91 89 87 84 82 79 77 76 75 72 69 67 65 63 53 116 115 114 113 112 112 110 109 107 106 106 104 102 101 99 98 96 94 92 91 89 87 85 82 80 78 76 75 73 70 67 65 64 62 54 117 116 115 114 113 113 111 109 108 106 106 104 102 101 99 98 96 94 92 91 89 87 85 83 82 78 76 74 72 71 67 65 64 62 61 55 118 117 116 115 114 113 112 110 109 107 106 104 103 101 99 98 96 94 93 91 89 87 85 83 81 78 76 74 72 70 68 65 64 63 61 60 56 119 117 116 115 114 114 112 111 109 108 106 104 102 101 99 97 96 94 92 90 89 87 85 83 81 79 77 74 72 70 67 66 64 63 62 60 59 57 120 118 116 115 114 114 113 111 110 108 106 104 102 100 99 97 95 94 92 90 88 86 85 83 81 79 78 73 72 70 68 66 63 63 62 61 61 60 58 121 119 117 115 114 114 113 112 110 108 106 104 102 100 99 97 95 93 92 90 88 86 84 83 81 79 78 75 71 70 68 66 65 62 62 61 62 63 60 59 122 119 117 116 115 115 113 112 111 109 106 104 102 100 99 97 95 93 91 90 88 86 84 82 81 80 78 76 72 69 68 66 66 64 61 61 62 64 64 62 60 123 120 119 117 116 115 114 113 112 111 106 105 103 101 99 97 95 93 91 89 87 85 84 82 81 80 79 77 74 70 68 67 66 64 63 61 63 65 67 65 63 61 123 121 119 118 117 116 114 113 111 109 106 104 103 101 99 95 95 93 91 89 87 85 84 82 81 80 79 78 75 72 69 68 68 67 65 62 63 67 68 69 66 67 62 123 121 120 118 117 116 114 112 110 108 106 104 103 101 98 96 94 93 91 89 87 85 84 82 81 80 79 78 76 73 69 68 68 68 67 63 64 66 71 72 68 70 71 63 122 121 120 119 118 117 114 112 110 108 106 104 102 101 99 96 94 92 91 89 86 85 84 82 81 80 78 78 77 75 70 69 70 79 69 64 66 71 72 77 72 73 77 77 64 122 121 120 119 118 117 114 112 110 108 106 104 103 101 99 97 95 93 91 88 86 85 83 82 81 80 78 78 78 76 71 70 72 72 72 72 68 75 78 80 89 79 83 85 83 65 121 121 121 120 119 117 115 112 110 108 106 105 104 102 100 98 96 93 91 88 86 84 83 82 81 80 79 79 79 78 76 76 74 74 74 74 77 79 83 86 89 96 92 92 92 91 For the purpose of this Table, “age next birthday attained” means age next birthday on 15 June 1970; “married at entry” means the officer was married when he first became a contributor; and “age next birthday at entry” means age next birthday on the day the officer first “currently married” means the officer was married on 15 June 1970. became a contributor;

Laws of Malaysia 58 Act 681TABLE E THE PERCENTAGE OF CONTRIBUTIONS WHICH A CONTRIBUTOR HAS PAID WHILE HE WAS A BACHELOR TO BE REFUNDED TO CONTRIBUTORS WHO WERE UNMARRIED AT ENTRY AND CURRENTLY MARRIED Age Next Birthday Attained Minus Age Next Birthday at Marriage AGE NEXT BIRTHDAY AT MARRIAGE MINUS AGE NEXT BIRTHDAY AT ENTRY 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 36 37 38 39 40 0 98 100 102 104 107 107 110 112 115 117 120 123 125 128 130 133 135 138 141 144 147 150 153 156 160 163 167 171 175 179 183 188 192 196 201 206 210 215 219 224 229 1 101 102 105 107 110 111 113 116 118 120 123 125 128 131 133 136 139 141 144 147 151 153 156 159 163 167 169 173 177 181 186 188 192 196 199 207 208 212 216 221 226 2 105 107 109 109 113 114 117 119 121 124 126 129 131 134 136 139 142 144 147 150 154 156 158 162 165 169 172 175 178 182 187 189 192 195 199 203 206 209 213 217 223 3 108 110 112 113 116 118 120 122 124 127 129 132 134 137 139 142 145 148 150 153 156 159 161 164 167 171 173 176 179 183 187 189 191 194 197 200 203 206 209 213 217 4 111 114 116 117 120 121 124 126 128 131 133 135 137 140 142 145 148 150 153 156 159 161 163 166 169 172 174 177 180 183 186 188 190 192 195 196 200 202 204 207 210 5 115 117 119 121 123 125 127 129 131 134 136 138 140 143 145 148 150 153 155 158 160 163 165 167 170 172 175 177 180 182 185 187 189 191 193 195 197 199 200 201 202 6 117 120 122 125 126 128 130 132 134 136 138 141 143 145 148 150 152 154 157 160 162 164 166 168 170 172 174 176 178 180 183 183 184 186 188 190 188 189 190 191 192 7 120 123 125 129 129 131 133 135 137 139 141 143 145 148 150 151 154 156 159 161 163 165 166 168 170 172 173 174 176 178 180 179 180 181 182 183 181 179 179 180 180 8 123 127 129 132 133 134 135 137 140 142 144 145 147 150 153 154 156 158 160 162 164 165 167 168 170 171 172 173 174 175 176 175 175 175 176 175 173 170 168 167 166 9 128 131 133 136 137 138 140 141 144 145 147 149 151 153 155 156 158 160 162 164 165 166 167 168 169 170 171 171 172 172 172 171 170 169 168 167 164 161 158 154 151 10 133 135 137 139 141 142 144 146 148 149 151 153 154 156 158 159 161 162 164 165 166 167 168 169 169 169 170 170 170 169 169 166 166 162 162 160 156 152 147 141 134 11 140 142 144 146 148 149 150 152 153 154 155 156 158 159 161 162 164 166 168 168 169 169 170 170 170 169 167 168 168 168 167 163 160 158 155 151 148 144 140 136 12 147 148 150 152 154 155 156 157 158 159 160 161 162 163 165 166 168 170 170 172 173 171 171 170 170 168 167 166 167 166 166 160 156 152 148 143 140 137 135 13 153 154 155 157 159 161 162 163 163 163 164 165 166 167 169 170 173 173 174 175 176 174 172 172 170 167 167 166 165 164 164 157 151 146 141 134 133 132 14 158 158 160 162 164 165 166 167 168 168 169 170 171 172 173 174 176 176 177 177 179 176 174 173 171 168 167 166 164 161 160 153 146 140 134 127 126 15 161 162 163 165 167 168 170 171 173 174 175 176 177 178 178 179 179 179 180 179 179 178 177 175 173 171 168 165 162 158 153 148 142 135 128 119 16 162 163 164 166 168 170 171 173 174 175 176 177 178 178 179 179 175 175 175 175 176 172 169 168 166 165 158 154 150 146 145 135 127 119 112 17 163 164 165 167 169 170 171 172 173 173 174 175 175 176 176 177 173 171 171 171 171 166 162 160 158 156 148 142 138 134 133 120 111 102 18 164 165 166 168 169 170 171 172 172 173 173 173 174 174 174 174 169 167 166 165 164 160 155 152 148 145 138 130 126 120 118 104 92 19 165 166 167 168 170 170 171 171 172 172 172 172 172 171 171 170 165 163 161 159 157 153 148 143 138 134 128 118 111 103 98 82 20 166 167 168 169 170 170 171 171 171 170 170 169 168 167 166 164 162 159 156 153 149 145 140 134 128 121 113 105 95 85 74 21 169 170 171 172 173 172 172 171 170 169 168 168 167 166 165 160 156 152 149 146 142 134 128 122 111 107 98 88 78 67 22 172 172 173 173 174 173 172 171 168 167 166 166 165 164 160 157 151 146 142 138 133 126 116 108 100 93 82 72 60 23 173 173 174 174 174 174 175 173 167 165 164 163 163 159 155 152 145 139 134 129 124 113 105 96 87 77 66 54 24 172 172 173 173 172 171 171 169 166 163 161 161 157 153 149 146 139 133 127 120 114 103 94 83 72 62 50 25 171 171 171 170 170 168 167 165 163 160 158 155 151 148 143 138 133 127 120 112 103 93 83 71 59 46 26 168 168 168 166 166 163 162 162 158 154 150 144 139 135 131 127 118 113 105 97 92 80 69 57 44 27 164 164 163 161 160 157 159 158 150 144 140 133 128 123 118 114 104 97 88 84 80 67 55 43 28 159 158 157 155 153 150 148 144 139 134 129 122 116 110 104 100 90 77 74 69 67 54 41 29 153 151 150 147 145 141 138 133 128 123 117 111 103 96 89 83 67 74 60 54 53 40 30 145 143 141 138 135 131 127 123 118 112 106 99 90 81 72 65 55 48 44 38 39 31 138 135 133 130 127 123 117 113 108 108 94 95 85 69 67 38 31 28 23 28 32 132 128 125 122 118 114 109 103 99 93 83 81 78 69 34 8 7 4 10 33 125 122 117 114 120 105 100 94 89 82 72 65 50 31 7 1 10 1 34 120 115 111 108 103 96 91 86 80 72 62 46 28 5 1 1 1 35 114 110 105 99 93 86 82 79 75 67 53 36 14 1 1 1 36 111 102 96 90 82 77 72 67 61 51 37 23 11 1 1 37 103 94 87 79 70 68 62 56 48 35 23 13 1 1 38 90 85 76 70 64 59 53 46 34 22 13 1 1 39 81 74 68 62 54 50 43 32 22 12 1 1 40 73 66 60 53 47 41 31 20 12 1 1 41 64 58 52 44 39 30 20 11 1 1 42 56 48 31 37 28 19 11 1 1 43 48 39 35 26 18 11 1 1 44 40 33 25 17 10 1 1 45 32 25 17 10 1 1 46 24 17 10 1 1 47 16 10 1 1 48 8 1 1 49 1 1 50 1 For the purpose of this Table, “age next birthday attained” means age next birthday on 15 June 1970; “unmarried at entry” means the officer was not married when he first became a contributor; and “age next birthday at entry” means age next birthday on the day the officer first “currently married” means the officer was married on 15 June 1970. became a contributor;

Widows and Orphans Pension 59 TABLE F THIS SECTION OF TABLE F IS APPLICABLE ONLY TO THE CASE OF OFFICERS WHO WILL BE AGED 55 NEXT BIRTHDAY , WHEN THEY COMPLETE THEIR PERIOD OF CONTRIBUTION THE PERCENTAGE OF CONTRIBUTIONS, WHICH A CONTRIBUTOR HAS PAID FROM THE DAY OF HIS FIRST MARRIAGE, TO BE REFUNDED TO CONTRIBUTORS WHO WERE UNMARRIED AT ENTRY AND CURRENTLY MARRIED Age Next Birthday Attained AGE NEXT BIRTHDAY AT MARRIAGE 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 36 37 38 39 40 41 42 44 45 46 47 48 49 50 51 52 53 54 55 20 62 21 64 64 22 66 66 65 23 68 68 67 66 24 70 69 69 68 67 25 72 71 70 70 69 68 26 74 73 72 71 71 70 68 27 76 75 74 73 72 71 70 68 28 78 77 76 75 74 73 72 70 68 29 80 79 78 77 76 75 74 72 71 69 30 82 81 80 79 78 77 76 75 73 71 69 31 85 84 83 82 80 79 79 77 76 74 72 70 32 88 87 85 84 83 82 81 80 78 77 75 73 71 33 91 89 88 86 85 84 83 82 81 80 78 77 75 72 34 93 91 90 88 87 86 85 84 83 82 81 79 78 75 72 35 95 93 92 91 89 88 87 86 85 84 83 81 79 77 75 73 36 96 95 94 93 91 90 89 88 87 86 84 83 82 79 77 75 73 37 97 96 95 95 93 92 91 90 89 87 86 85 83 82 80 77 76 74 38 98 98 97 96 95 94 94 93 90 89 88 86 85 83 82 79 78 76 74 39 100 99 99 98 97 96 95 94 93 91 90 88 87 85 84 82 80 78 77 75 40 101 101 100 100 99 98 97 96 95 93 92 91 89 87 86 84 82 81 79 77 75 41 103 102 102 102 101 100 99 98 97 96 95 93 91 90 88 87 85 83 81 80 78 76 42 105 104 104 103 102 101 101 100 99 98 98 96 94 93 91 89 87 85 84 82 81 79 76 43 106 106 105 104 104 103 103 102 104 103 101 100 99 95 94 92 90 89 86 85 83 82 79 77 44 108 107 106 105 105 105 104 104 105 104 103 102 101 98 96 94 92 91 89 87 86 84 82 79 77 45 109 108 108 107 106 106 106 105 105 105 105 104 102 101 98 96 94 93 91 90 88 86 84 82 79 78 46 110 109 109 108 108 107 107 107 107 107 106 106 105 102 100 98 96 95 93 91 89 88 85 83 81 79 80 47 111 111 110 110 109 109 108 108 110 109 108 107 105 103 102 100 98 94 94 92 91 89 87 84 82 80 81 81 48 112 111 111 111 110 110 109 109 109 109 108 107 106 105 103 101 100 98 96 94 92 91 88 86 84 81 82 82 82 49 113 112 112 112 111 111 111 110 110 109 109 108 106 105 104 103 101 100 98 96 94 92 90 87 86 83 83 84 83 83 50 113 113 113 113 113 112 112 111 110 110 109 108 107 106 105 104 103 101 100 98 96 94 92 90 87 85 85 85 85 84 84 51 114 114 114 114 113 113 112 112 111 110 110 109 108 107 106 104 103 102 100 98 97 95 93 91 89 88 87 87 87 86 85 86 52 115 115 115 114 114 114 113 112 112 111 111 110 109 108 106 105 104 102 100 99 97 96 94 93 91 91 90 89 89 89 88 88 90 53 116 116 116 115 115 114 114 113 112 111 111 110 109 108 107 106 104 103 101 99 98 97 96 94 93 93 92 92 91 91 91 91 92 94 54 117 117 117 116 116 116 114 113 112 112 112 111 110 109 108 106 105 103 101 100 98 98 97 96 95 95 94 94 94 94 94 94 94 96 100 55 118 118 118 117 117 116 115 114 114 113 112 112 111 110 109 108 106 104 102 100 98 98 97 96 96 96 96 95 95 95 95 95 96 96 98 For the purpose of this Table, “age next birthday attained” means age next birthday on 15 June 1970; “currently married” means the officer was married on 15 June 1970. “unmarried at entry” means the officer was not married when he first became a contributor; and

Laws of Malaysia 60 Act 681TABLE F THIS SECTION OF TABLE F IS APPLICABLE ONLY TO THE CASE OF OFFICERS WHO WILL BE AGED 56 NEXT BIRTHDAY , WHEN THEY COMPLETE THEIR PERIOD OF CONTRIBUTION THE PERCENTAGE OF CONTRIBUTIONS, WHICH A CONTRIBUTOR HAS PAID FROM THE DAY OF HIS FIRST MARRIAGE, TO BE REFUNDED TO CONTRIBUTORS WHO WERE UNMARRIED AT ENTRY AND CURRENTLY MARRIED Age Next Birthday Attained AGE NEXT BIRTHDAY AT MARRIAGE 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 36 37 38 39 40 41 42 43 44 45 46 47 48 49 50 51 52 53 54 55 21 63 22 65 64 23 67 66 65 24 69 68 67 66 25 71 70 69 68 67 26 73 72 71 70 69 68 27 75 74 73 72 71 70 68 28 77 76 74 73 73 72 70 69 29 79 77 76 75 75 74 72 71 69 30 81 80 79 78 77 76 74 73 72 70 31 83 82 81 80 79 78 77 75 74 72 70 32 86 84 83 82 81 80 79 78 76 74 73 71 33 88 87 85 84 83 82 81 80 78 77 76 74 71 34 91 89 88 86 85 84 83 82 81 79 78 76 74 72 35 93 92 90 88 87 86 85 84 83 82 81 79 77 75 72 36 95 94 92 91 89 88 87 87 86 84 83 81 80 78 75 73 37 96 96 94 93 92 91 90 89 88 86 85 83 82 80 78 75 73 38 98 97 96 95 94 93 92 91 90 88 87 85 83 82 80 78 76 74 39 99 98 97 97 96 95 94 93 92 90 89 97 85 84 82 80 78 76 74 40 101 100 99 98 98 97 96 95 94 92 91 88 87 86 84 83 81 79 77 75 41 102 102 101 101 100 99 98 97 96 94 93 92 90 88 87 85 83 81 79 77 75 42 104 103 102 102 101 100 100 99 98 96 96 94 92 90 89 88 86 83 81 79 78 75 43 106 105 104 103 102 102 101 100 99 98 98 96 94 92 90 90 88 86 83 82 80 78 75 44 107 106 105 104 104 103 103 102 101 100 100 98 96 94 93 92 90 88 86 84 82 80 78 75 45 109 107 107 106 105 105 104 104 103 103 102 100 98 97 95 94 92 90 88 86 84 82 80 78 76 46 110 109 108 107 107 106 106 106 106 105 104 103 101 99 98 96 94 92 90 88 86 84 82 80 79 77 47 111 110 109 109 108 108 107 107 106 106 105 104 102 100 98 97 95 93 91 90 88 86 84 82 80 78 78 48 112 111 110 109 109 109 108 108 107 107 106 104 102 101 99 98 96 94 92 91 90 87 85 83 81 80 79 79 49 112 112 111 111 111 111 110 109 108 107 107 105 103 102 100 99 97 95 94 92 91 88 86 84 82 80 80 80 80 50 113 113 113 112 112 112 111 110 109 108 107 106 104 103 101 100 98 97 95 93 92 90 87 85 83 82 81 81 81 82 51 114 114 114 114 114 113 112 111 110 109 108 107 105 104 102 101 100 98 96 95 93 90 88 86 84 83 82 82 82 82 83 52 115 115 115 114 114 114 112 111 110 109 108 107 106 104 103 102 100 98 97 95 94 92 90 87 86 86 85 84 84 85 87 87 53 116 116 115 115 115 114 113 112 111 110 109 108 106 105 104 103 100 99 97 95 94 93 91 89 88 88 87 86 84 86 89 90 91 54 117 116 116 116 115 115 114 113 112 110 109 108 107 106 104 103 101 99 97 95 94 93 92 90 90 90 89 88 88 89 91 92 93 95 55 117 117 117 116 116 115 114 113 112 111 110 108 107 106 105 104 101 99 97 95 94 93 92 91 91 91 90 90 90 90 92 93 94 96 100 56 118 118 118 117 117 116 115 114 112 111 110 109 108 107 106 104 101 99 97 95 94 93 92 92 91 91 91 91 91 91 92 93 95 97 99 For the purpose of this Table, “age next birthday attained” means age next birthday on 15 June 1970; “currently married” means the officer was married on 15 June 1970. “unmarried at entry” means the officer was not married when he first became a contributor; and

Widows and Orphans Pension 61 TABLE F THIS SECTION OF TABLE F IS APPLICABLE ONLY TO THE CASE OF OFFICERS WHO WILL BE AGED 57 NEXT BIRTHDAY , WHEN THEY COMPLETE THEIR PERIOD OF CONTRIBUTION THE PERCENTAGE OF CONTRIBUTIONS, WHICH A CONTRIBUTOR HAS PAID FROM THE DAY OF HIS FIRST MARRIAGE, TO BE REFUNDED TO CONTRIBUTORS WHO WERE UNMARRIED AT ENTRY AND CURRENTLY MARRIED Age Next Birthday Attained AGE NEXT BIRTHDAY AT MARRIAGE 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 36 37 38 39 40 41 42 43 44 45 46 47 48 49 50 51 52 53 54 55 56 22 64 23 66 65 24 68 67 66 25 70 69 68 67 26 72 71 70 69 67 27 74 73 72 71 69 68 28 76 75 74 73 71 70 68 29 78 77 76 75 74 73 71 69 30 80 79 78 77 76 75 73 71 69 31 82 81 80 79 78 77 75 73 72 70 32 84 83 82 81 80 79 78 76 74 72 70 33 86 85 84 83 82 81 80 78 76 74 72 70 34 89 87 86 85 84 83 82 80 78 76 75 73 71 35 91 90 88 87 86 85 84 82 80 79 77 75 73 71 36 93 92 91 89 88 87 86 84 83 81 80 78 76 74 72 37 95 94 93 92 90 89 88 87 85 84 82 80 78 76 74 72 38 97 96 95 94 92 91 90 89 87 86 84 83 81 79 77 73 72 39 98 97 96 95 94 93 92 91 89 88 86 83 83 81 80 78 76 73 40 100 99 98 97 96 95 94 94 92 90 89 87 86 84 82 81 78 76 73 41 101 100 100 99 98 97 96 95 94 92 91 90 88 87 85 84 81 79 76 74 42 103 102 102 101 100 99 98 97 96 94 93 92 91 89 88 86 84 82 79 77 74 43 105 104 103 102 101 100 100 99 98 96 96 95 93 91 90 88 86 83 81 79 76 74 44 106 105 104 103 103 102 101 100 99 99 98 97 95 93 92 90 88 85 83 81 79 76 74 45 108 106 105 104 104 103 103 102 101 101 101 99 98 95 94 92 90 87 85 83 81 78 76 74 46 109 107 106 106 105 105 104 104 103 103 102 101 99 97 95 94 91 89 87 84 82 80 78 76 74 47 110 109 108 107 107 106 106 106 106 105 104 102 101 99 97 95 93 90 88 86 84 82 80 78 77 75 48 111 110 109 109 108 108 107 107 106 106 105 103 101 99 98 96 94 91 89 87 85 83 81 79 78 76 76 49 112 111 110 110 110 109 108 108 107 106 105 103 101 100 98 96 94 92 90 88 86 84 82 80 79 77 77 77 50 112 112 112 111 111 111 110 109 108 107 106 104 102 100 98 97 95 93 91 89 87 85 83 81 80 78 78 78 78 51 113 113 113 113 112 112 111 110 109 108 106 104 102 101 99 97 95 93 92 90 88 86 84 82 81 80 79 79 79 79 52 114 114 114 114 114 113 112 111 110 108 107 103 103 102 100 98 96 94 92 91 89 87 83 83 82 81 80 80 80 80 81 53 115 115 115 114 114 114 112 111 110 109 107 105 104 102 100 99 97 95 93 91 90 88 86 85 84 84 83 83 83 83 83 83 54 116 116 115 115 115 114 113 112 110 109 108 106 104 102 101 99 97 95 93 92 91 89 88 87 86 87 86 85 85 86 87 86 85 55 117 116 116 116 115 115 114 112 111 110 108 106 104 103 101 100 98 96 94 92 91 90 89 88 88 89 88 87 87 87 89 88 89 87 56 117 117 116 116 116 115 114 113 112 110 109 107 105 103 102 100 98 96 94 92 91 90 90 89 89 89 89 88 88 88 89 90 92 94 100 57 118 118 118 117 117 116 113 113 112 111 109 107 105 104 102 100 98 96 94 92 91 90 90 90 89 89 89 89 89 89 89 91 94 97 100 For the purpose of this Table, “age next birthday attained” means age next birthday on 15 June 1970; “currently married” means the officer was married on 15 June 1970. “unmarried at entry” means the officer was not married when he first became a contributor; and

Laws of Malaysia 62 Act 681TABLE F THIS SECTION OF TABLE F IS APPLICABLE ONLY TO THE CASE OF OFFICERS WHO WILL BE AGED 58 NEXT BIRTHDAY , WHEN THEY COMPLETE THEIR PERIOD OF CONTRIBUTION THE PERCENTAGE OF CONTRIBUTIONS, WHICH A CONTRIBUTOR HAS PAID FROM THE DAY OF HIS FIRST MARRIAGE, TO BE REFUNDED TO CONTRIBUTORS WHO WERE UNMARRIED AT ENTRY AND CURRENTLY MARRIED Age Next Birthday Attained AGE NEXT BIRTHDAY AT MARRIAGE 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 36 37 38 39 40 41 42 43 44 45 46 47 48 49 50 51 52 53 54 55 56 57 23 65 24 67 65 25 68 67 66 26 70 69 68 66 27 72 71 70 68 67 28 74 73 72 71 69 68 29 76 75 74 73 72 71 71 30 79 77 76 75 74 73 73 73 31 81 80 78 77 76 76 75 74 74 32 83 82 81 80 79 78 77 76 76 75 33 85 84 83 82 81 80 79 78 77 77 76 34 87 86 85 84 83 82 81 80 79 78 77 75 35 89 88 87 86 85 83 82 81 80 79 78 76 74 36 91 90 89 88 86 85 84 83 82 80 79 77 75 73 37 93 92 91 90 88 87 86 85 83 82 80 78 76 74 72 38 95 94 93 92 90 89 88 87 85 84 82 80 78 76 74 72 39 97 96 95 94 92 92 90 89 87 86 84 82 80 78 77 75 72 40 98 98 97 96 95 94 92 91 90 88 87 85 83 81 80 78 75 72 41 100 99 98 98 97 96 94 93 92 90 89 87 86 84 82 81 78 75 73 42 101 101 100 100 99 98 96 95 94 92 91 90 88 87 85 84 81 78 76 73 43 103 103 102 102 101 100 99 97 96 94 93 92 91 90 88 86 84 82 79 76 73 44 105 104 103 103 102 101 100 99 98 96 96 94 93 91 90 88 85 83 80 78 75 73 45 106 105 105 104 103 102 101 100 99 98 98 96 94 93 91 90 87 84 82 79 77 75 73 46 108 107 106 105 104 103 103 102 101 100 100 98 96 94 93 92 89 86 83 81 79 77 75 73 47 109 108 107 106 105 105 104 104 103 102 102 100 98 96 94 93 90 87 85 83 81 79 77 75 73 48 110 109 108 107 107 106 106 106 105 104 103 101 100 98 96 94 91 89 86 84 82 80 78 77 75 74 49 111 110 109 109 108 108 107 106 106 105 104 102 100 98 96 94 92 89 87 85 83 81 79 78 76 75 75 50 112 111 110 110 110 109 108 107 106 106 104 102 100 98 96 94 92 90 88 86 84 82 80 79 78 76 76 76 51 113 112 112 111 111 111 109 108 107 106 105 103 100 98 96 94 92 90 88 86 85 83 81 80 78 77 77 77 77 52 113 113 113 113 112 112 111 109 108 107 106 100 100 98 96 95 93 91 89 87 85 84 82 80 79 78 78 78 78 78 53 114 114 114 114 114 113 112 111 109 108 106 104 101 99 97 95 93 91 89 88 86 84 82 81 80 79 79 79 79 79 80 54 115 114 114 114 114 113 112 111 110 108 106 104 102 100 98 96 94 92 90 88 86 85 83 82 81 81 81 81 81 81 83 84 55 115 115 115 115 114 114 112 111 110 108 106 104 102 100 98 96 94 92 90 88 87 86 84 83 82 83 82 82 82 83 85 86 89 56 116 116 116 115 115 114 113 111 110 108 107 104 102 100 98 97 94 92 90 89 88 86 85 84 83 84 83 83 83 84 86 88 90 94 57 116 116 116 116 115 115 113 112 110 108 107 105 103 101 99 97 95 92 90 89 87 86 85 84 84 84 84 84 84 85 87 89 92 94 99 58 117 117 117 117 116 115 114 112 110 109 107 105 103 101 99 97 95 92 90 89 87 86 85 84 83 83 83 83 84 85 86 89 92 95 99 For the purpose of this Table, “age next birthday attained” means age next birthday on 15 June 1970; “currently married” means the officer was married on 15 June 1970 “unmarried at entry” means the officer was not married when he first became a contributor; and

Widows and Orphans Pension 63 TABLE F THIS SECTION OF TABLE F IS APPLICABLE ONLY TO THE CASE OF OFFICERS WHO WILL BE AGED 59 NEXT BIRTHDAY , WHEN THEY COMPLETE THEIR PERIOD OF CONTRIBUTION THE PERCENTAGE OF CONTRIBUTIONS, WHICH A CONTRIBUTOR HAS PAID FROM THE DAY OF HIS FIRST MARRIAGE, TO BE REFUNDED TO CONTRIBUTORS WHO WERE UNMARRIED AT ENTRY AND CURRENTLY MARRIED Age Next Birthday Attained AGE NEXT BIRTHDAY AT MARRIAGE 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 36 37 38 39 40 41 42 43 44 45 46 47 48 49 50 51 52 53 54 55 56 57 58 59 24 66 25 68 66 26 69 67 67 27 71 69 68 67 28 73 72 70 69 68 29 75 74 73 71 70 68 30 77 76 75 74 72 71 69 31 80 78 77 76 75 74 72 69 32 82 81 80 78 77 76 74 72 70 33 84 83 82 81 80 79 77 75 73 71 34 86 85 85 84 82 81 79 78 76 73 71 35 88 87 86 85 84 82 81 79 77 75 73 71 36 90 89 88 87 86 84 83 81 79 77 75 73 71 37 92 91 90 89 87 86 84 83 81 79 78 76 74 72 38 94 93 92 91 89 88 86 85 83 82 80 78 76 74 72 39 96 95 94 93 91 90 89 87 85 84 82 80 78 76 74 72 40 98 97 96 95 93 92 91 89 87 86 84 82 80 78 77 75 72 41 99 98 97 96 95 94 93 91 89 88 87 85 82 81 79 78 75 73 42 101 100 99 98 97 96 95 93 92 90 89 87 85 84 82 81 78 76 73 43 103 102 101 100 99 98 97 95 94 92 91 90 88 87 85 84 81 79 76 73 44 104 103 103 102 101 100 99 97 96 94 93 92 91 90 88 86 84 82 79 76 73 45 105 104 104 103 102 101 100 99 97 96 95 93 92 91 89 88 85 83 80 77 75 73 46 107 106 105 104 103 102 101 100 99 98 97 95 93 92 91 90 87 84 81 79 76 74 72 47 108 107 106 105 104 104 102 101 100 99 98 97 95 94 92 91 88 85 82 80 78 76 74 72 48 109 108 107 106 106 105 104 103 102 101 100 98 97 95 94 92 89 86 83 81 79 77 75 74 73 49 110 109 109 108 107 106 105 104 103 102 101 100 98 97 95 93 90 87 84 82 80 78 76 75 74 73 50 111 111 111 109 108 108 106 105 104 103 102 100 98 97 95 93 90 88 85 83 81 79 77 76 75 74 74 51 112 111 111 110 109 109 108 106 105 104 103 101 98 97 95 93 91 88 86 84 82 80 78 77 76 74 74 74 52 113 112 112 111 110 110 109 107 106 105 103 101 99 97 95 93 91 89 86 84 82 80 79 78 76 75 75 75 75 53 113 113 113 112 112 111 110 108 107 105 104 101 99 97 95 93 91 89 87 85 83 81 79 78 77 75 76 76 76 77 54 114 114 114 114 113 112 111 109 108 106 104 102 99 97 95 93 91 89 87 85 83 81 79 78 77 76 76 76 76 77 78 55 114 114 114 114 113 112 111 109 108 106 104 102 99 97 95 93 91 89 87 85 84 82 80 79 78 78 78 78 78 78 79 83 56 115 114 114 114 113 113 111 109 108 106 104 101 99 97 95 92 91 89 87 85 84 82 81 80 80 80 79 79 79 80 81 84 88 57 115 115 114 114 114 113 111 110 108 106 104 101 98 96 94 92 90 88 86 85 84 83 81 80 80 80 80 80 80 81 82 85 89 93 58 116 115 115 115 114 114 112 110 108 106 104 101 98 95 93 91 89 87 86 85 84 82 81 80 80 80 80 80 81 82 83 86 90 94 99 59 116 116 116 116 115 114 112 111 109 106 104 100 97 94 91 89 88 86 85 84 83 82 81 80 80 79 80 81 82 83 84 87 91 95 99 For the purpose of this Table, “age next birthday attained” means age next birthday on 15 June 1970; “currently married” means the officer was married on 15 June 1970 “unmarried at entry” means the officer was not married when he first became a contributor; and

Laws of Malaysia 64 Act 681TABLE F THIS SECTION OF TABLE IS APPLICABLE ONLY TO THE CASE OF OFFICERS WHO WILL BE AGED 60 NEXT BIRTHDAY , WHEN THEY COMPLETE THEIR PERIOD OF CONTRIBUTION THE PERCENTAGE OF CONTRIBUTIONS HAS PAID FROM THE DAY OF HIS FIRST MARRIAGE, TO BE REFUNDED TO CONTRIBUTORS WHO WERE UNMARRIED AT ENTRY AND CURRENTLY MARRIED Age Next Birthday Attained AGE NEXT BIRTHDAY AT MARRIAGE 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 36 37 38 39 40 41 42 43 44 45 46 47 48 49 50 51 52 53 54 55 56 57 58 59 60 67 26 69 67 27 71 69 67 28 72 71 69 67 29 74 73 71 69 68 30 76 75 73 72 70 68 31 78 77 76 76 73 71 68 32 80 79 78 77 75 74 71 68 33 83 81 80 79 78 76 74 71 68 34 85 83 82 81 80 79 76 74 72 68 35 87 85 84 83 82 81 79 78 76 74 71 36 89 88 86 85 84 82 81 79 78 76 73 71 37 91 90 88 87 86 84 83 81 79 78 76 74 72 38 93 92 90 89 87 86 85 83 82 80 78 76 74 72 39 95 94 92 91 90 88 87 85 84 82 80 78 76 74 72 40 96 95 94 93 92 90 89 87 86 84 82 80 78 76 74 72 41 98 97 96 96 94 92 91 90 88 86 85 82 80 78 76 75 72 42 100 98 98 97 96 94 93 92 90 88 87 85 82 80 79 78 75 72 43 101 100 99 99 98 96 95 94 92 90 89 87 85 83 82 81 78 75 72 44 103 102 102 100 100 98 97 96 94 92 91 90 88 86 84 83 80 78 75 72 45 104 104 103 103 102 100 99 98 96 95 93 92 90 88 87 85 83 81 78 76 72 46 106 105 104 104 103 102 100 99 98 96 95 93 92 90 88 87 84 82 80 77 74 72 47 107 106 105 105 104 103 102 101 99 98 97 94 93 91 90 88 86 83 81 79 76 73 71 48 108 107 106 106 105 104 103 102 100 100 98 96 94 92 91 89 87 85 82 79 77 75 73 71 49 109 108 107 106 106 105 104 103 102 100 100 98 96 94 92 90 88 86 83 80 78 76 74 72 71 50 110 109 108 107 106 105 104 104 103 102 100 99 97 95 93 91 88 86 83 80 78 76 74 73 72 71 51 111 110 109 108 107 106 105 104 103 102 101 99 97 95 93 91 89 86 85 81 79 77 75 74 73 72 72 52 112 111 110 109 108 107 106 105 104 103 101 99 97 95 93 91 89 86 84 82 80 78 76 74 74 73 73 72 53 112 112 111 110 109 108 107 106 105 103 102 99 97 95 93 91 89 86 84 82 80 78 77 75 74 74 73 73 73 54 113 112 112 111 110 109 108 107 106 104 102 100 97 95 93 91 89 86 84 82 80 79 77 76 75 74 73 74 74 75 55 113 113 113 113 112 111 109 108 106 104 102 100 97 95 93 90 88 86 84 82 80 78 77 76 75 74 74 74 74 76 76 56 114 113 112 112 112 110 109 108 106 104 102 100 97 95 93 90 88 86 84 83 80 79 78 77 76 75 75 75 75 76 77 82 57 114 113 113 112 111 111 109 108 106 104 102 100 97 95 93 90 88 86 84 82 80 79 78 77 76 76 76 76 76 77 78 82 87 58 114 114 113 112 111 110 109 108 106 104 102 100 97 95 93 90 88 86 84 82 80 79 78 77 76 76 76 76 77 77 78 83 87 92 59 115 114 114 113 112 110 110 108 106 104 102 100 98 95 93 90 88 86 84 82 80 79 78 77 76 76 76 76 77 78 80 84 88 93 99 60 115 115 115 114 113 112 110 109 107 105 102 100 98 95 93 90 88 86 84 82 80 79 77 76 75 75 75 75 76 78 81 84 88 92 98 For the purpose of this Table, “age next birthday attained” means age next birthday on 15 June 1970; “currently married” means the officer was married on 15 June 1970 “unmarried at entry” means the officer was not married when he first became a contributor; and

Widows and Orphans Pension 65 TABLE F THIS SECTION OF TABLE F IS APPLICABLE ONLY TO THE CASE OF OFFICERS WHO WILL BE AGED 61 NEXT BIRTHDAY , WHEN THEY COMPLETE THEIR PERIOD OF CONTRIBUTION THE PERCENTAGE OF CONTRIBUTIONS, WHICH A CONTRIBUTOR HAS PAID FROM THE DAY OF HIS FIRST MARRIAGE, TO BE REFUNDED TO CONTRIBUTORS WHO WERE UNMARRIED AT ENTRY AND CURRENTLY MARRIED Age Next Birthday Attained AGE NEXT BIRTHDAY AT MARRIAGE 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 36 37 38 39 40 41 42 43 44 45 46 47 48 49 50 51 52 53 54 55 56 57 58 59 60 26 68 27 70 68 28 71 70 68 29 73 72 70 68 30 75 74 72 70 68 31 77 76 74 72 70 68 32 79 78 76 74 72 71 69 33 81 80 78 76 75 74 72 69 34 83 82 80 79 78 76 74 72 70 35 85 84 83 82 80 79 77 75 73 71 36 87 86 85 84 83 81 79 77 75 73 71 37 87 88 87 86 84 83 81 79 77 75 73 71 38 91 90 89 87 86 84 83 81 79 77 75 73 72 39 93 92 90 89 87 86 84 83 81 79 78 76 74 72 40 94 93 92 91 89 88 86 85 83 82 80 78 76 74 72 41 96 95 94 93 91 90 89 87 85 84 82 80 78 76 74 72 42 98 96 96 95 93 92 91 89 88 86 85 82 80 78 76 75 72 43 99 98 97 96 95 95 93 91 89 88 87 85 83 81 79 78 75 72 44 101 100 99 98 97 97 95 93 92 90 89 88 85 83 82 80 77 74 72 45 103 102 101 100 99 98 97 95 94 92 91 89 88 86 84 82 79 77 74 71 46 104 103 103 102 101 100 99 97 96 95 93 92 90 88 86 84 82 79 77 74 71 47 106 104 104 103 102 101 100 98 97 96 94 92 91 89 87 86 83 80 78 75 72 70 48 107 106 105 104 103 101 100 99 98 96 95 93 92 90 89 87 84 81 78 76 73 71 69 49 108 107 106 105 103 102 101 100 99 97 96 94 93 91 90 89 85 82 79 76 74 72 70 69 50 109 108 107 106 104 103 102 101 100 98 97 95 94 92 90 89 86 83 80 77 75 73 71 70 69 51 110 109 108 106 105 104 103 102 101 99 98 97 95 93 91 89 86 83 80 78 76 74 72 71 70 69 52 110 110 108 107 106 103 104 103 101 100 99 97 95 93 91 88 86 83 80 78 76 75 73 72 71 70 69 53 111 110 109 108 107 106 105 103 102 101 99 97 95 93 90 88 86 83 80 78 77 75 74 73 72 71 70 70 54 111 110 110 109 108 107 106 104 103 101 100 97 95 92 90 88 85 83 80 78 77 76 74 73 72 71 71 71 71 55 112 111 110 110 109 108 107 105 103 102 100 97 94 92 90 87 85 83 80 78 77 76 74 73 72 72 72 72 72 72 56 112 112 112 111 110 109 108 106 104 102 100 97 94 92 89 87 85 82 80 79 77 75 74 73 72 72 72 72 72 73 74 57 112 112 112 111 110 109 108 106 104 102 100 97 94 92 90 88 85 83 81 79 78 76 75 74 74 74 73 73 74 75 77 80 58 113 112 112 111 110 110 108 106 104 102 100 97 94 92 90 88 86 83 81 80 79 77 75 74 74 75 74 74 76 76 80 82 86 59 113 113 112 111 110 110 108 106 104 102 100 97 94 92 90 88 86 83 81 80 79 77 75 74 74 75 75 75 76 78 81 83 87 92 60 114 113 112 111 111 110 108 106 104 102 99 97 94 92 90 88 85 83 81 79 78 76 75 74 74 74 74 75 76 78 80 84 88 93 99 61 114 114 113 112 111 110 108 106 104 101 99 96 94 92 89 87 85 82 80 79 77 75 74 73 72 72 72 73 75 77 79 83 88 93 98 For the purpose of this Table, “age next birthday attained” means age next birthday on 15 June 1970; “currently married” means the officer was married on 15 June 1970 “unmarried at entry” means the officer was not married when he first became a contributor; and

Laws of Malaysia 66 Act 681TABLE F THIS SECTION OF TABLE F IS APPLICABLE ONLY TO THE CASE OF OFFICERS WHO WILL BE AGED 62 NEXT BIRTHDAY , WHEN THEY COMPLETE THEIR PERIOD OF CONTRIBUTION THE PERCENTAGE OF CONTRIBUTIONS, WHICH A CONTRIBUTOR HAS PAID FROM THE DAY OF HIS FIRST MARRIAGE, TO BE REFUNDED TO CONTRIBUTORS WHO WERE UNMARRIED AT ENTRY AND CURRENTLY MARRIED Age Next Birthday Attained AGE NEXT BIRTHDAY AT MARRIAGE 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 36 37 38 39 40 41 42 43 44 45 46 47 48 49 50 51 52 53 54 55 56 57 58 59 60 61 27 69 28 71 69 29 72 71 69 30 74 73 71 69 31 76 74 73 71 69 32 78 76 75 73 71 69 33 80 78 77 75 73 72 69 34 82 80 79 77 76 75 72 70 35 84 83 81 80 78 77 75 73 70 36 86 85 84 82 81 80 78 75 73 71 37 88 87 86 85 84 82 80 78 76 74 71 38 90 89 88 87 85 84 82 80 78 76 73 71 39 92 91 89 88 87 86 84 82 80 78 76 74 72 40 94 92 91 90 89 87 86 84 82 80 78 76 74 72 41 95 94 93 92 90 89 87 86 84 82 80 78 76 74 72 42 97 96 95 94 92 91 89 88 86 84 82 80 78 76 74 72 43 99 98 97 95 94 93 91 89 88 83 84 82 80 78 76 74 72 44 101 100 98 97 96 95 93 91 89 87 87 84 82 80 78 77 74 71 45 102 101 100 99 98 97 95 93 91 87 89 86 84 82 80 79 76 73 71 46 104 103 102 100 100 99 97 95 93 91 90 88 86 84 82 80 78 75 73 70 47 105 104 103 102 101 100 99 97 95 94 92 90 88 86 84 82 80 77 75 73 70 48 106 105 104 103 102 100 99 98 96 94 93 91 89 87 85 84 81 78 76 74 71 69 49 107 106 104 103 102 101 100 98 97 95 94 92 90 88 86 85 82 79 77 74 72 70 68 50 108 106 105 104 103 102 100 98 97 96 95 93 91 89 87 86 83 80 77 75 73 71 69 68 51 108 107 106 105 103 102 101 99 98 97 95 94 92 90 88 87 84 81 78 76 74 72 70 69 68 52 109 108 107 106 104 103 102 100 99 98 96 95 93 91 89 87 84 81 78 76 74 72 71 70 69 68 53 109 108 107 106 105 104 102 101 100 98 96 95 93 91 89 87 84 81 78 76 74 72 71 70 69 68 68 54 110 109 108 107 106 106 104 102 100 98 97 95 92 90 88 86 84 80 78 76 74 72 71 70 69 69 69 69 55 110 110 109 108 107 107 105 103 101 99 97 95 92 90 88 86 83 80 78 76 74 72 71 70 69 69 69 69 70 56 111 110 110 109 107 107 106 104 101 99 97 95 92 90 88 85 83 80 78 76 74 72 71 70 99 69 69 69 70 71 57 111 111 111 110 109 108 106 104 102 99 97 95 92 90 87 85 82 80 78 76 74 72 71 70 69 69 69 69 70 71 72 58 111 111 110 110 109 108 106 104 102 99 97 95 92 90 88 86 83 80 78 76 75 73 72 71 70 71 70 70 71 72 75 78 59 111 111 110 110 109 108 106 104 102 99 97 95 92 90 88 86 83 80 78 76 75 74 72 71 71 72 71 71 72 74 77 80 85 60 111 111 110 110 109 108 106 104 102 99 97 95 92 90 88 85 83 80 78 76 75 73 72 71 71 72 72 72 73 75 78 82 86 92 61 112 111 111 110 109 108 106 104 102 99 96 94 92 89 87 85 82 80 78 76 74 73 71 70 70 71 71 71 73 75 78 82 87 92 99 62 112 112 111 111 109 108 106 103 100 98 96 94 91 89 86 84 81 79 77 75 73 71 70 69 69 69 70 70 72 74 76 81 86 91 97 For the purpose of this Table, “age next birthday attained” means age next birthday on 15 June 1970; “currently married” means the officer was married on 15 June 1970 “unmarried at entry” means the officer was not married when he first became a contributor; and

Widows and Orphans Pension 67 TABLE F THIS SECTION OF TABLE F IS APPLICABLE ONLY TO THE CASE OF OFFICERS WHO WILL BE AGED 63 NEXT BIRTHDAY , WHEN THEY COMPLETE THEIR PERIOD OF CONTRIBUTION THE PERCENTAGE OF CONTRIBUTIONS, WHICH A CONTRIBUTOR HAS PAID FROM THE DAY OF HIS FIRST MARRIAGE, TO BE REFUNDED TO CONTRIBUTORS WHO WERE UNMARRIED AT ENTRY AND CURRENTLY MARRIED Age Next Birthday Attained AGE NEXT BIRTHDAY AT MARRIAGE 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 36 37 38 39 40 41 42 43 44 45 46 47 48 49 50 51 52 53 54 55 56 57 58 59 60 61 62 28 7029 71 7030 73 71 6931 74 73 71 6932 76 74 73 71 6933 78 76 75 73 71 6934 80 79 77 75 73 72 6935 83 81 79 77 76 74 72 7036 85 83 81 80 78 76 74 72 7037 87 85 84 82 80 79 78 75 73 7138 89 88 86 84 83 81 79 77 75 73 7139 91 90 88 86 85 83 81 79 77 75 73 7240 93 92 90 88 87 85 83 81 79 77 76 74 7241 95 93 92 90 88 87 85 83 81 80 78 76 74 7242 96 95 94 92 90 89 87 85 84 82 80 78 76 74 7243 98 97 95 94 93 91 89 88 86 84 82 80 78 76 74 7244 99 98 97 95 94 93 91 89 88 86 84 82 80 78 76 74 7145 101 99 98 97 96 95 93 91 90 88 86 84 82 80 78 76 73 7146 102 101 99 98 97 96 95 93 91 89 88 86 84 81 79 77 75 72 7047 103 102 101 100 99 98 96 95 93 91 90 88 85 83 81 79 76 74 72 7048 104 103 102 101 100 99 98 96 95 93 91 89 87 84 82 80 78 76 73 71 6949 105 104 103 102 101 100 98 97 95 94 92 90 88 86 83 82 79 77 74 72 70 6850 106 105 104 102 101 100 99 97 96 94 93 91 89 87 85 83 80 78 75 73 71 69 6751 107 106 104 103 102 101 99 98 96 95 93 92 90 88 86 84 81 78 76 73 71 70 68 6652 107 106 105 104 102 101 100 98 97 95 94 92 90 88 86 85 82 79 76 74 72 70 68 67 6653 108 107 106 104 103 102 100 99 97 96 94 93 91 89 87 85 82 79 76 74 72 70 69 68 67 6654 109 108 106 105 104 103 101 99 98 96 94 92 90 89 87 85 82 79 76 74 72 70 69 69 67 66 6655 109 108 107 106 105 104 102 100 98 96 94 92 90 88 86 84 82 79 76 74 72 70 69 68 67 66 66 6756 109 108 107 106 105 104 102 100 98 96 94 92 90 88 86 84 81 78 76 74 71 70 69 68 67 66 66 67 6857 110 109 108 107 106 105 102 100 98 96 94 92 90 88 86 83 80 78 76 73 71 70 69 68 67 66 66 67 68 6958 110 109 109 108 106 105 103 101 98 96 94 92 90 88 85 83 80 77 75 73 71 69 68 67 66 66 66 67 67 68 7059 110 109 109 108 106 105 103 100 98 96 94 92 90 88 85 84 80 78 75 73 72 70 69 68 67 68 68 68 69 70 74 7760 110 109 108 107 106 105 103 100 98 96 94 92 90 88 86 84 81 78 75 73 72 70 69 68 68 69 69 69 70 72 76 79 8461 110 109 108 107 106 105 103 100 98 96 94 92 90 88 86 84 81 78 75 73 72 70 69 68 68 69 69 70 70 73 77 80 85 9162 110 109 108 107 106 105 103 100 98 96 93 91 89 87 85 83 80 77 75 73 71 70 68 68 67 68 68 69 70 73 76 80 85 91 9863 110 110 109 108 107 105 103 100 98 95 93 91 89 87 84 82 79 76 74 72 70 68 67 66 66 66 67 68 69 71 74 79 84 90 96 For the purpose of this Table, “age next birthday attained” means age next birthday on 15 June 1970; “currently married” means the officer was married on 15 June 1970 “unmarried at entry” means the officer was not married when he first became a contributor; and

Laws of Malaysia 68 Act 681TABLE F THIS SECTION OF TABLE F IS APPLICABLE ONLY TO THE CASE OF OFFICERS WHO WILL BE AGED 64 NEXT BIRTHDAY , WHEN THEY COMPLETE THEIR PERIOD OF CONTRIBUTION THE PERCENTAGE OF CONTRIBUTIONS, WHICH A CONTRIBUTOR HAS PAID FROM THE DAY OF HIS FIRST MARRIAGE, TO BE REFUNDED TO CONTRIBUTORS WHO WERE UNMARRIED AT ENTRY AND CURRENTLY MARRIED Age Next Birthday Attained AGE NEXT BIRTHDAY AT MARRIAGE 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 36 37 38 39 40 41 42 43 44 45 46 47 48 49 50 51 52 53 54 55 56 57 58 59 60 61 62 63 29 70 30 72 70 31 73 72 69 32 75 73 71 69 33 77 75 73 71 69 34 79 77 75 73 71 69 35 81 79 77 75 73 71 69 36 83 81 79 77 75 74 72 70 37 85 83 81 79 78 76 74 72 70 38 87 85 84 82 80 79 77 75 73 71 39 89 88 86 84 83 81 79 77 75 73 71 40 91 90 88 88 85 84 82 80 78 76 74 72 41 93 92 90 89 87 86 84 82 80 78 76 74 72 42 95 93 92 91 89 88 86 84 82 80 79 76 74 72 43 96 95 94 93 91 90 88 86 84 83 81 79 76 74 72 44 98 97 96 95 93 92 90 89 87 85 83 81 79 77 74 72 45 99 98 97 96 95 94 92 90 88 86 85 82 80 78 75 73 71 46 101 100 98 97 96 96 94 92 90 88 86 84 81 79 76 74 72 70 47 102 101 100 98 98 97 95 93 91 89 88 85 82 80 77 75 73 71 70 48 103 102 101 100 99 98 96 94 92 91 89 86 83 81 78 76 74 72 70 69 49 104 103 102 101 100 99 96 96 94 92 90 87 84 82 79 77 75 73 71 69 68 50 105 104 102 101 100 99 97 96 94 92 91 88 85 83 80 79 76 74 72 70 68 67 51 105 104 103 102 100 99 98 96 94 93 91 89 86 84 82 80 77 75 73 71 69 67 66 52 106 105 103 102 101 99 98 96 95 93 92 89 87 85 83 81 78 76 73 71 69 67 66 65 53 107 105 104 102 101 100 98 97 95 94 92 89 87 85 84 82 79 76 73 71 69 67 66 65 64 54 107 106 104 103 101 100 99 97 95 94 92 90 88 86 84 82 79 76 73 71 69 67 66 65 64 64 55 107 106 105 103 102 101 99 97 95 94 92 90 88 86 84 82 79 76 73 71 69 68 66 65 64 64 64 56 108 106 105 104 102 101 99 97 95 94 92 90 88 86 84 81 79 76 73 71 69 68 66 65 64 64 64 64 57 108 107 105 104 103 101 99 97 95 93 91 89 87 85 83 81 78 76 72 70 68 67 66 65 64 64 64 64 65 58 108 107 106 105 103 102 100 97 95 93 91 89 87 85 83 80 78 75 72 70 68 67 66 65 64 64 64 64 65 66 59 108 107 106 105 104 102 100 98 95 93 91 89 87 85 82 80 77 74 72 70 68 67 66 65 64 64 64 64 65 66 67 60 108 107 106 105 104 102 100 98 95 93 91 89 87 85 82 81 78 75 72 70 69 68 66 66 66 66 66 66 67 68 71 74 61 108 107 106 105 104 102 100 98 95 93 91 89 87 85 83 81 78 75 72 70 69 68 67 66 66 67 67 67 68 70 74 76 82 62 108 107 106 105 104 102 100 98 95 93 91 89 87 85 83 81 78 75 72 70 69 68 67 66 66 67 67 67 68 71 75 78 83 90 63 108 107 106 105 104 102 100 98 95 93 91 88 86 84 82 80 77 74 72 70 69 67 66 65 65 65 66 67 68 70 79 78 84 90 98 64 108 107 106 105 104 102 100 97 95 92 90 88 86 84 81 79 76 73 71 69 67 65 64 63 63 63 63 64 67 69 72 77 83 89 94 For the purpose of this Table, “age next birthday attained” means age next birthday on 15 June 1970; “currently married” means the officer was married on 15 June 1970 “unmarried at entry” means the officer was not married when he first became a contributor; and

Widows and Orphans Pension 69 TABLE F THIS SECTION OF TABLE F IS APPLICABLE ONLY TO THE CASE OF OFFICERS WHO WILL BE AGED 65 NEXT BIRTHDAY , WHEN THEY COMPLETE THEIR PERIOD OF CONTRIBUTION THE PERCENTAGE OF CONTRIBUTIONS, WHICH A CONTRIBUTOR HAS PAID FROM THE DAY OF HIS FIRST MARRIAGE, TO BE REFUNDED TO CONTRIBUTORS WHO WERE UNMARRIED AT ENTRY AND CURRENTLY MARRIED Age Next Birthday Attained AGE NEXT BIRTHDAY AT MARRIAGE 30 31 32 33 34 35 36 37 38 39 40 41 42 43 44 45 46 47 48 49 50 51 52 53 54 55 56 57 58 59 60 61 62 63 64 30 71 31 73 71 32 75 73 70 33 76 74 72 70 34 78 76 74 72 70 35 80 78 76 74 72 70 36 82 80 78 76 74 72 70 37 84 82 80 78 76 74 72 70 38 85 84 82 81 79 77 75 73 71 39 87 86 84 83 81 79 77 75 73 71 40 89 88 87 85 83 81 79 77 75 73 71 41 91 90 88 87 85 84 82 80 78 76 74 71 42 94 92 91 89 88 86 84 83 81 80 77 74 71 43 96 94 93 92 90 88 86 85 84 82 79 77 74 72 44 97 96 95 94 92 90 88 87 85 84 81 79 77 74 72 45 99 98 96 95 94 92 90 89 87 85 83 81 78 76 74 72 46 100 99 98 97 95 94 92 91 88 86 85 82 80 77 75 72 71 47 102 100 99 98 97 95 93 92 90 88 86 83 81 78 75 72 71 70 48 103 101 100 99 98 96 94 93 91 89 87 84 82 79 76 73 72 70 69 49 103 102 101 100 98 97 95 94 92 90 88 85 83 80 77 73 72 71 69 68 50 104 103 102 101 99 98 96 95 95 91 89 86 84 81 78 74 73 72 71 68 67 51 105 103 102 100 99 99 98 97 96 94 90 87 84 81 79 78 77 74 71 69 67 66 52 106 104 102 100 99 99 98 96 95 93 90 87 84 82 80 80 77 74 72 69 68 66 66 53 106 104 102 100 99 99 97 96 94 92 89 87 85 82 81 79 77 74 72 69 67 66 65 64 54 106 104 103 101 99 98 97 96 94 91 89 87 85 83 81 79 77 74 72 69 67 66 63 64 63 55 106 105 103 102 100 98 97 96 94 91 89 87 85 83 81 79 77 74 72 69 67 66 65 64 63 62 56 106 105 104 103 101 100 98 96 93 91 89 87 86 84 82 79 77 74 72 69 66 65 64 63 62 62 62 57 106 105 104 102 101 100 98 95 93 91 88 87 85 83 82 79 76 74 71 69 66 65 64 63 62 62 62 62 58 106 105 104 102 101 99 97 93 93 90 88 86 84 83 81 79 76 73 71 68 66 65 64 63 62 62 62 62 62 59 106 105 104 102 101 99 97 93 92 90 88 86 84 82 80 79 76 73 71 68 66 65 64 63 62 62 62 62 63 64 60 106 105 104 102 101 99 97 94 92 90 87 86 84 83 81 78 76 73 71 68 65 64 63 62 61 61 61 61 62 63 65 61 106 105 103 102 100 98 96 94 92 90 87 85 84 82 80 78 75 73 70 68 65 64 63 62 62 62 62 62 63 64 66 71 62 106 104 103 101 100 98 93 93 92 89 87 85 83 81 79 77 75 72 70 67 64 64 63 62 62 62 62 63 64 65 67 72 78 63 106 104 103 101 100 97 95 93 91 89 86 84 83 81 79 77 74 72 69 67 64 64 63 62 62 62 62 63 64 66 68 73 78 87 64 106 104 103 101 99 97 95 93 91 89 86 84 82 81 79 77 74 72 69 66 64 63 63 62 62 62 62 63 64 66 68 74 80 86 98 65 106 105 104 102 100 98 96 94 91 89 86 85 83 81 79 77 74 72 69 66 64 62 62 61 61 61 62 63 64 67 70 74 79 85 92 For the purpose of this Table, “age next birthday attained” means age next birthday on 15 June 1970; “currently married” means the officer was married on 15 June 1970 “unmarried at entry” means the officer was not married when he first became a contributor; and

Laws of Malaysia 70 Act 681 s econd s chedule [Section 2] *Pensions (Entitled Officers) Ordinance 1956 Section 4 [Ord. 17 of 1956 ] *Entitled Officers (Gratuities) Ordinance 1956 Section 4 [Ord. 21 of 1956 ] The Federation of Malaya Agreement 1948 Tenth Schedule [F .M.G.N. 6 of 1948 ] Part 1, paragraphs 3 and 5 Retirement from the Public Service (Compensation) Section 3 Ordinance 1956 [ Colony of Singapore Ord. 43 of 1956] or the corresponding provisions of any law in force in the Colony which may be substituted therefor. *NOTE —Pensions (Entitled Officers) Ordinance 1956 and Entitled Officer (Gratuities) Ordinance 1956 has been repealed by Ordinance 28/1957.

Widows and Orphans Pension 71 APPENDIX [Sections 11, 12 and 13 of the Widows’ and Orphans’ Pensions (Amendment and Extended Application) Ordinance 1950 [ No. 75 of 1950 ] are reproduced below for the purpose of convenience] Extension, repeal and transitory provisions 11. (1) Subject as hereinafter provided, the *Enactment as amended by the foregoing provisions of this Ordinance shall be deemed to have had effect throughout the territories now comprised in the Federation as from 1 April 1946. (2) The Widows’ and Orphans’ Pension Ordinance [ S.S. Cap. 79 ] is hereby repealed with effect from 1 April 1946. (3) No public servant, to whom the Enactment applies and who at any time before the date of publication in the Gazette of this Ordinance, was in the service of the Government of any of the territories now comprised in the Federation where no provision was made by law for the granting of pensions to widows and orphans or was an officer serving on probation or on agreement, shall be liable, by reason only this section, to make contributions in respect of the period from 1 April 1946, to the aforementioned date or have any rights under the Enactment: Provided that every such public servant may, by notice in writing to be given to the Directors (appointed under section 2 of the Enactment) not later than three months from the date of publication in the Gazette of this Ordinance, or such further period as the Directors may in any particular case allow elect to become a contributor under the Enactment with effect from 1 April 1946, or, if, on that date he was not in the service of the Government, from the date on which he entered such service, and, if, within a period of one year, he makes a lump sum payment to the Directors equal to the monthly abatements which would have been made from his salary had the Enactment, as extended by this Ordinance, been in force, he shall deemed to have become a contributor as from 1 April 1946, or the date on which he entered the service of the Government, as the case may be, and, as from such date, he shall be deemed to have enjoyed all the rights and to have been subject to all the liabilities under the Enactment, as extended by this Ordinance. (4) All monthly abatements made from the salary or pension of any public servant under the Enactment or under the Widows’ and Orphans’ Pension Ordinance in respect of the period between 1 April 1946, and the date on which this Ordinance is published in the Gazette , shall be deemed to have been made under and for the purposes of the Enactment as extended by this Ordinance. *NOTE—Refers to Widow’s and Orphans’ Pension Act ( see s. 2 of Widows and Orphans Pensions (Amendment and Extended Application) Ordinance 1950 [ No. 75 of 1950 ].

Laws of Malaysia 72 Act 681 (5) Officers who immediately before 1 April 1946, were— (a) in the service of the Colony of the Straits Settlements; (b) serving in the Settlement of Penang or Malacca; and (c) contributors under the Widows’ and Orphans’ Pension Ordinance of the said Colony, shall, as from the aforementioned date be deemed to have been transferred to the Government of the Malayan Union under and in accordance with the provisions of the Enactment as extended by this Ordinance. (6) Where in the Enactment, as extended by this Ordinance, any period of time is specified for the doing of any act by a contributor or by any other person, such period shall begin to run from the date of the event mentioned in the Enactment for the running of such period or from the date on which this Ordinance is published in the Gazette , whichever is the later. (7) Where at any time before the date on which this Ordinance is published in the Gazette , a contributor whose official income became reduced, whether by reduction of salary or by his retirement on pension, has given notice under section 6 of the Enactment, of his desire to continue his rate of contribution according to the full amount of contribution paid by him at the date of such reduction or retirement, then notwithstanding the provisions of the Enactment— (a) such contributor may revoke the option so exercised; or (b) if he has revoked such option before the date on which this Ordinance is published in the Gazette , such revocation shall be deemed to have been validly and legally made and accepted by the Directors (as defined in section 2 of the Enactment). Interpretation of “salary” 12. For the avoidance of doubt it is hereby declared and enacted that in the Enactment and in the Widows’ and Orphans’ Pension Ordinance the word “salary” shall mean and be deemed at all times to have meant the salary attached to a pensionable office, or, in the case of an officer serving in a pensionable class, the salary payable to such officer as an officer in such class, as the case may be, together in either case with any personal pensionable allowance and expatriation pay (if any) but exclusive of acting pay or other allowance.

Widows and Orphans Pension 73 SPECIAL PROVISIONS REGARDING OFFICERS TRANSFERRED FROM PALESTINE Special provisions regarding lump sum payment of contributions by officers transferred from Palestine to the Federation 13. Notwithstanding anything contained in the Enactment, an officer who was a contributor under the Palestine Widows’ and Orphans’ Pensions Ordinance 1944, immediately before 15 May 1948, and who is transferred to the service of the Government of the Federation may, not later than three months after such transfer or after the commencement of this Ordinance, whichever is the later, make a lump sum payment to the Directors, appointed under the Enactment, equal to the accumulated contributions paid by him and by the Government of Palestine on his behalf under the aforesaid Palestine Ordinance.

Laws of Malaysia 74 Act 681 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 681 WIDOWS AND ORPHANS PENSION ACT 1915 LIST OF AMENDMENTS Amending law Short title In force from F.M.S. En. No. 3 of 1933 Widows and Orphans’ Pension (Amendment) Enactment 1933 171933 F.M.S En. No. 26 of 1936 Widows and Orphans Pension (Amendment) Enactment 1936 291936 F.M.S En. No. 18 of 1937 Statute Law Revision (Chief Secretary’s Powers) Enactment 1937 231937 F.M.S En. No. 13 of 1938 Widows and Orphans Pension (Amendment) Enactment 1938 061938 F.M.S En. No. 4 of 1939 Widows and Orphans Pension (Amendment) Enactment 1939 051939 F.M. Ord. No. 75 of 1950 Widows and Orphans Pension (Amendment and Extended Application) Ordinance 1950 111950 F.M. Ord. No. 36 of 1955 Widows and Orphans Pensions (Amendment) Ordinance 1955 011955 F.M. Ord. No. 15 of 1956 Widows and Orphans Pension (Amendment) Ordinance 1956 011955 F.M. Ord. No. 56 of 1957 Widows and Orphans Pension (Amendment) Ordinance 1957 271957 Ord. No. 28 of 1958 Widows and Orphans Pension (Amendment) Ordinance 1958 271957 Act A24 Widows and Orphans Pension (Amendment) Act 1969 281969

Widows and Orphans Pension 75 Amending law Short title In force from P.U. (A) 184/ 1970 Emergency (Essential Powers) Ordinance No. 33, 1970 151970 Act A96 Widows and Orphans Pension (Amendment) Act 1972 011972 LIST OF LAWS OR PARTS THEREOF REPEALED No. Title Ord. 33 of 1970 Emergency (Essential Powers) Ordinance No. 33, 1970 S.S. Cap. 79 The Widows’ and Orphans’ Pension Ordinance

Laws of Malaysia 76 Act 681 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 681 WIDOWS AND ORPHANS PENSION ACT 1915 LIST OF SECTIONS AMENDED Section Amending authority In force from 2 En. 26/1936 291936 En. 18/1937 231937 En. 13/1938 061938 Ord. 75/1950 111950 Ord. 36/1955 011955 Ord. 56/1957 271957 Act A24 281969 P.U. (A) 184/1970 151970 Act A96 011973 3 En. 18/1937 231937 Ord. 75/1950 111950 P.U. (A) 184/1970 151970 4 En. 29/1926 011926 En. 26/1936 291936 En. 18/1937 231937 En. 4/1939 051939 Ord. 75/1950 111950 Ord. 36/1955 011955 Act A96 011973 5 En. 3/1933 171933 5a Ord. 75/1950 111950 Ord. 36/1955 011955 5b Ord. 56/1957 271957 Ord. 28/1958 271957 5c P.U. (A) 184/1970 151970 5d Act A96 011973 5e Act A96 011973

Widows and Orphans Pension 77 Section Amending authority In force from 6 En. 26/1936 291936 Ord. 75/1950 111950 Ord. 36/1955 011955 Ord. 56/1957 271957 7 Ord. 36/1955 011955 8 Ord. 36/1955 011955 9 Ord. 36/1955 011955 10 Ord. 36/1955 011955 11 Ord. 36/1955 011955 12 Ord. 18/1937 231937 Ord. 75/1950 111950 Ord. 36/1955 011955 12a Ord. 36/1955 011955 13 Ord. 75/1950 111950 14 Ord. 75/1950 111950 15 En. 3/1933 171933 Ord. 75/1950 111950 Ord. 36/1955 011955 17 Ord. 75/1950 111950 Ord. 15/1956 011955 19 Ord. 75/1950 111950 20 Ord. 75/1950 111950 21 En. 18/1937 231937 Ord. 75/1950 111950 23 En. 18/1937 231937 23a Ord. 75/1950 111950 24 Ord. 15/1956 011955 33a Ord. 56/1957 271957

Laws of Malaysia 78 Act 681 Section Amending authority In force from 34 Ord. 75/1950 111950 37 En. 3/1933 171933 En. 18/1937 231937 38 En. 18/1937 231937 Schedule/ En. 26/1936 291936 First Schedule Ord. 28/1958 271957 Ord. 75/1950 111950 Ord. 56/1957 271957 Act A96 011972 Second Schedule Ord. 56/1957 Ord. 28/1958 271958 271957 Third Schedule En. 3/1933 171933