Perbadanan Labuan LAWS OF MALAYSIA RepRint Act 609 perb Ad An An LAbu An Act 2001 Incorporating all amendments up to 1 January 2006 published by the CommissioneR of law Revision, malaysia undeR the authoRity of the Revision of laws aCt 968 in CollaboRation with peRCetakan nasional malaysia bhd 2006

 perb Ad An An L Abu An A ct 2001 d ate of Royal a ssent ... … … … …  5 f ebruary 00 d ate of publication in the Gazette … …  m arch 00 Previous r e Print First Reprint ... ... ... ... ... 2002

 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 609 perb Ad An An LAbu An Act 2001 a RRan Gement of se Ctions Part I pRelimina Ry s ection  . s hort title and commencement  . i nterpretation Part II the pe Rbadanan  . e stablishment of the perbadanan 4. f unctions and powers of the perbadanan 5. m embership of the perbadanan 6. a dvisory Council 7. p ower of m inister to give directions 8. Returns, reports, accounts and information Part III Chai Rman , offi Ce Rs and se Rvants of the pe Rbadanan 9. t he Chairman  0. t he Chief e xecutive o fficer  . a ppointment of other officers and servants of the perbadanan  . d iscipline

4 Laws of Malaysia Act 609 Part iv finan Ce s ection  . t he f und  4. e xpenditure to be charged on the f und  5. Conservation of the f und  6. Reserve fund  7. i mprovement s ervice f und  8. e xpenditure and preparation of estimates  9. s tatutory b odies ( a ccounts and a nnual Reports) a ct 980 Part v othe R powe Rs of the pe Rbadanan  0. p ower to borrow  . i nvestment  . p ower to employ  . p ower to grant loans  4. p ower to establish corporations  5. a cquisition of land Part vi Gene Ral  6. o bligation of secrecy  7. p rotection of officers and servants  8. p ublic a uthorities protection a ct 948  9. p ublic servants  0. p ower to make regulations Part vii Repeal , savin Gs and t Ransitional  . i nterpretation in relation to part vii  . Repeal and dissolution

5Perbadanan Labuan  . t ransfer of powers, etc.  4. t ransfer of property  5. t ransfer of moneys to the f und  6. m embership of dissolved l embaga and dissolved Council  7. Continuance of officers and servants  8. Continuance of pending applications, etc.  9. Reference in law or document FIrst schedule s econd schedule t h Ird schedule s ection

6 Laws of Malaysia Act 609

7Perbadanan Labuan LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 609 perb Ad An An LA bu An Act 2001 a n a ct to repeal the l embaga pembangunan l abuan a ct 99 and to revoke the l abuan m unicipal Council instrument 98; to dissolve the l embaga pembangunan l abuan and the l abuan m unicipal Council; to establish the perbadanan l abuan in place of the l embaga pembangunan l abuan and the l abuan m unicipal Council; and to provide for matters connected therewith. [1 July 2001, P.U. (B) 128/2001 ] en Acted by the parliament of m alaysia as follows: Part i pRelimina Ry Short title and commencement 1. () t his a ct may be cited as the perbadanan l abuan a ct 00. () t his a ct shall come into operation on such date as the m inister may, by notification in the Gazette , appoint and the m inister may appoint different dates for the coming into operation of different provisions of this a ct. Interpretation 2. i n this a ct, unless the context otherwise requires— “Chief e xecutive o fficer” means the Chief e xecutive o fficer appointed under subsection 0() and includes any officer directed under subsection 0(6) to perform the dutie s of the Chief e xecutive o fficer;

8 Laws of Malaysia Act 609 “f und” m eans the f und established under section ; “a dvisory Council” means the a dvisory Council established under section 6; “m inister” means the m inister of f inance; “Chairman” means the Chairman of the perbadanan appointed under section 5; “perbadanan” means the perbadanan l abuan established under section . P art ii the pe Rbadanan e stablishment of the perbadanan 3. () a body corporate by the name of “ perbadanan l abuan” is established. () t he perbadanan shall have perpetual succession and a common seal. () t he perbadanan may sue and be sued in its name. (4) s ubject to and for the purposes of this a ct, the perbadanan may, upon such terms as it deems fit— (a) enter into contracts; (b) acquire, purchase, take, hold and enjoy movable and immovable property of every description; and (c) convey, assign, surrender, yield up, charge, mortgage, demise, reassign, transfer or otherwise dispose of, or deal with, any movable or immovable property or any interest therein vested in the perbadanan. Functions and powers of the perbadanan 4. () t he functions of the perbadanan shall be— (a) to promote and stimulate the f ederal t erritory of l abuan as a tourist destination, duty free area and trade centre;

9Perbadanan Labuan (b) to promote, stimulate, facilitate and undertake economic and social development in the f ederal t erritory of l abuan; (c) to promote, stimulate and undertake the development of art, culture, sport and recreational activities in the f ederal t erritory of l abuan; (d) to promote, stimulate, facilitate and undertake the development of tourism and infrastructure as well as residential, agricultural, industrial and commercial development in the f ederal t erritory of l abuan; (e) to perform all functions of a local government in the f ederal t erritory of l abuan; (f) to perform all functions of a local planning authority in the f ederal t erritory of l abuan; (g) to control and co-ordinate the performance of the activities mentioned in paragraphs (a), (b), (c) and (d) in the f ederal t erritory of l abuan; and (h) to co-ordinate the performance of the activities carried out by Government agencies in the f ederal t erritory of l abuan. () t he perbadanan shall have power to do all things expedient or reasonably necessary for, or incidental to, the performance of its functions, and in particular, but without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing— (a) to carry on all activities, particularly activities which are commercial or industrial in nature, activities relating to tourism and activities of research and training, the carrying on whereof appears to it to be requisite, advantageous or convenient for or in connection with the performance of its functions; (b) to initiate preliminary studies of possible development and redevelopment areas and make preliminary plans outlining development or redevelopment activities and preliminary surveys to determine if the undertaking and carrying out of development or redevelopment projects are fe asible;

0 Laws of Malaysia Act 609 (c) to regulate, approve or control all buildings and building operations and the repair and removal of ruinous and dangerous buildings, including the power to prohibit, close and demolish the erection of a building of a particular class, design or appearance in the f ederal t erritory of l abuan; (d) to co-operate with or act as agent or managing agent of, or otherwise act in association with or on behalf of, the f ederal Government, any public authority, any company or corporation, or any other body or person; (e) to promote and co-ordinate the carrying on of the activities mentioned in paragraphs (a) and (b) by the f ederal Government, any public authority, any company or corporation, or anybody or person; (f) with the approval of the m inister, to establish or expand, or promote the establishment or expansion of, companies, corporations or other bodies to carry on any of the activities mentioned in paragraphs (a) and (b) either under the control or partial control of the perbadanan or independently; (g) to give assistance to any public authority, any company or corporation, or any other body or person appearing to the perbadanan to have facilities for the carrying on of any of the activities mentioned in paragraphs (a) and (b), including, with the approval of the m inister, financial assistance by the taking up of share or loan capital or by loan or otherwise; (h) with the approval of the m inister, to underwrite or otherwise acquire any stock and shares in any public or private company, and to dispose of the stock or shares on such terms and conditions as the perbadanan may, with the approval of the m inister, determine; (i) to require the f ederal Government, any public authority, any company or corporation, or any body or person to obtain the prior approval of the perbadanan before carrying out development in the f ederal t erritory of l abuan;

Perbadanan Labuan (j) with the approval of the m inister, to dispose of capital assets and to use the proceeds from such disposal as directed by the m inister; (k) to appoint such agents as it may deem fit for the purpose of performing its functions; (l) to impose fees or any other charges it deems fit for giving effect to any of its functions or powers; (m) to regulate, co-ordinate and undertake development, including the development of infrastructure, in the f ederal t erritory of l abuan; (n) to value and collect property assessment tax; and (o) to do such other things as it deems fit to enable it to carry out its functionsand powers effectively. () s ubject to section 7, it shall be the responsibility of the perbadanan in performing its functions under this a ct to ensure that the functions are performed in such manner as shall be in furtherance of the policy of the f ederal Government for the time being in force and in particular the policy relating to the development of investment and tourism in the f ederal t erritory of l abuan. Membership of the perbadanan 5. () t he perbadanan shall consist of the following members who shall be appointed by the m inister: (a) a Chairman; (b) a d eputy Chairman; and (c) four other members. () t he m inister may, in respect of each member appointed under paragraph ( )(c) appoint an alternate member to attend, in place of that member, meetings of the perbadanan when the member is for any reason unable to attend. () w hen attending meetings of the perbadanan, an alternate member shall for all purposes be deemed to be a member of the perbadanan.

 Laws of Malaysia Act 609 (4) a n alternate member shall, unless he sooner resigns his membership or his appointment is sooner revoked, cease to be an alternate member when the member in respect of whom he is an alternate ceases to be a member of the perbadanan. (5) t he provisions of the f irst s chedule shall apply to the perbadanan. Advisory c ouncil 6. () t he perbadanan shall establish an a dvisory Council which shall consist of the following members who shall be appointed by the m inister: (a) a chairman; and (b) six other members who shall consist of at least three local residents of the f ederal t erritory of l abuan. () t he a dvisory Council shall be responsible for the giving of advice to the perbadanan in relation to the functions of a local government carried out by the perbadanan. () t he provisions of the s econd s chedule shall apply to the a dvisory Council. power of Minister to give directions 7. () t he perbadanan shall be responsible to the m inister. () t he m inister may, from time to time, give directions which are consistent with the provisions of this a ct and the perbadanan shall, as soon as possible, give effect to all such directions. r eturns, reports, accounts and information 8. () t he perbadanan shall furnish to the m inister, and such public authority as may be directed by the m inister, such returns, reports, accounts and information with respect to its property and activities as the m inister may, from time to time, require or direct.

Perbadanan Labuan () w ithout prejudice to the generality of subsection ( ), the perbadanan shall, as soon as practicable after the end of each financial year, cause to be made and transmitted to the m inister and, if so directed by the m inister, to any other public authority a report dealing with the activities of the perbadanan during the preced ing financial year. () t he r eport under subsection ( ) shall be in such form and shall contain such information relating to the proceedings and policy of the perbadanan as the m inister may, from time to time, specify. Part iii Chai Rman , offi Ce Rs and se Rvants of the pe Rbadanan t he c hairman 9. () w ithout prejudice to the other provisions of this a ct, the Chairman shall perform such duties as the m inister may, from time to time, determine. () t he perbadanan may, with the approval of the m inister, delegate to the Chairman all or any of the functions, powers or duties, vested in or imposed on the perbadanan by this a ct and any function, power or duty so delegated may be performed, exercised or discharged by the Chairman in the name and on behalf of the perbadanan. () e very delegation under subsection ( ) shall be published in the Gazette . t he c hief e xecutive Officer 10. () t he perbadanan may, with the approval of the m inister, appoint a Chief e xecutive o fficer on such terms and conditions as it may think desirable. () t he Chief e xecutive o fficer shall be responsible for— (a) the preparation of programs, schemes and projects for the consideration of the perbadanan;

4 Laws of Malaysia Act 609 (b) the execution of all programs, schemes and projects of the perbadanan; and (c) the carrying out of the decisions of the perbadanan and the directions of the Chairman. () t he Chief e xecutive o fficer shall have general control of the other officers and servants of the perbadanan. (4) t he Chief e xecutive o fficer shall perform such further duties as the perbadanan may, from time to time, direct. (5) i n discharging his duties, the Chief e xecutive o fficer shall act under the general authority and direction of the perbadanan. (6) i f the Chief e xecutive o fficer is temporarily absent from m alaysia or is temporarily incapacitated through illness or for any other reason from the performance of his duties, the perbadanan may direct any other officer to perform his duties during such temporary absence or incapacity. Appointment of other officers and servants of the perbadanan 11. () s ubject to any regulations made under subsection ( ), the perbadanan may appoint on such terms and conditions as it may think desirable such other officers and servants as may be necessary for carrying out the purposes of this a ct. () n o person shall be eligible for employment as an officer or servant of the perbadanan if he has, directly or indirectly, by himself or his partner, any share or interest in any contract or proposed contract with, for or on behalf of the perbadanan. () t he perbadanan may, with the approval of the m inister, make regulations with respect to the conditions of service of its officers and servants. d iscipline 12. t he perbadanan shall have disciplinary authority over all its officers and servants and shall exercise disciplinary control in respect of all such persons.

5Perbadanan Labuan Part iv finan Ce t he Fund 13. () a fund to be known as the “perbadanan l abuan f und” to be administered and controlled by the perbadanan is established. () t he f und shall consist of— (a) such sums as may be provided from time to time for the purposes of this a ct by parliament; (b) such sums as may be paid from time to time to the perbadanan from loans made by the perbadanan; (c) moneys earned by the operation of any project, scheme or enterprise financed from the f und; (d) moneys earned or arising from any property, investment, mortgage, charge or debenture acquired by or vested in the perbadanan; (e) any property, investment, mortgage, charge or debenture acquired by or vested in the perbadanan; (f) sums borrowed by the perbadanan for the purposes of meeting any of its obligations or discharging any of its duties; and (g) all other sums or property, other than sums mentioned in subsection 7(), which may in any manner become payable to or vested in the perbadanan in respect of any matter incidental to its functions, powers and duties. e xpenditure to be charged on the Fund 14. t he f und shall be expended for the purpose of— (a) granting loans under section ; (b) paying any expenditure lawfully incurred by the perbadanan, including survey and legal fees and costs and other fees and costs, and the remuneration of officers and servants of the perbadanan, including the granting of loans, superannuation allowances, pensions or gratuities;

6 Laws of Malaysia Act 609 (c) paying any other expenses, costs or expenditure properly incurred or accepted by the perbadanan in the performance of its functions or the exercise of its powers under this a ct; (d) purchasing or hiring plant, equipment, machinery and materials, acquiring land and other assets, and erecting buildings, and carrying out any other works and undertakings in the performance of its functions or the exercise of its powers under this a ct; (e) repaying any moneys borrowed under this a ct and the interest due thereon; and (f) generally, paying any expenses for carrying into effect the provisions of this a ct. c onservation of the Fund 15. it shall be the duty of the perbadanan to conserve the f und by so performing, exercising and discharging its functions, powers and duties under this a ct as to secure that the total revenues of the perbadanan are sufficient to meet all sums properly chargeable to its revenue account, including depreciation and interest on capital, taking one year with another. r eserve fund 16. t he perbadanan shall establish and manage a reserve fund within the f und. Improvement Service Fund 17. () t he perbadanan shall establish and manage a fund to be known as the “ improvement s ervice f und”. () t he improvement s ervice f und shall consist of any sums contributed by any person who erects a building in the f ederal t erritory of l abuan in accordance with the rates prescribed by regulations. () t he improvement s ervice f und shall be expended for the purpose of carrying out works to improve the existing infrastructural facilities.

7Perbadanan Labuan e xpenditure and preparation of estimates 18. () t he expenditure of the perbadanan up to such amount as may be authorized by the m inister for any one year shall be defrayed out of the f und. () b efore the beginning of s eptember of each year, the perbadanan shall submit to the m inister an estimate of the expenditure, including the expenditure for development projects, for the following year in such form and containing such particulars as the m inister may direct; and the m inister shall, before the beginning of the following year, notify the perbadanan of the amount authorized for expenditure generally or of the amounts authorized for each description of expenditure. () t he perbadanan may at any time submit to the m inister a supplementary estimate for any one year and the m inister may allow the whole or any part of the additional expenditure included therein. (4) t he m inister may direct the perbadanan to submit a copy of the estimate or supplementary estimate, as the case may be, to such other public authority as may be specified in the direction. Statutory b odies (Accounts and Annual r eports) Act 1980 19. t he s tatutory b odies ( a ccounts and a nnual Reports) a ct 980 [ Act 240 ] shall apply to the perbadanan and any corporation established under section 4. Part v othe R powe Rs of the pe Rbadanan power to borrow 20. () t he perbadanan may from time to time, with the approval of the m inister, borrow, at such rate of interest and for such period and upon such terms as to the time and method of repayment and otherwise as the m inister may approve, any sums required by the perbadanan for meeting any of its obligations or discharging any of its duties.

8 Laws of Malaysia Act 609 () t he perbadanan may f rom time to time, with the approval of the m inister, borro w money by the issue of bonds, debentures or stock of such class and value and upon such terms as it may, with the approval of the m inister, deem expedient, for all or any of the following purposes: (a) the provision of working capital; (b) the performance of the functions, the exercise of the powers and the discharge of the duties of the perbadanan under this a ct; (c) the performance of such additional functions as may be undertaken by the perbadanan under this a ct; (d) the redemption of any shares or stock which the perbadanan is required or entitled to redeem; and (e) any other expenditure properly chargeable to capital account. Investment 21. t he assets of the perbadanan, in so far as they are not required to be expended by the perbadanan under this a ct, shall be invested in such manner as the m inister may approve. power to employ 22. t he perbadanan may employ and pay agents and technical advisers, including advocates and solicitors, bankers, stockbrokers, surveyors, valuers and other persons, to transact any business or to do any act required to be transacted or done in the performance of its functions, the exercise of its powers or the discharge of its duties or for the better carrying into effect the purposes of this a ct. power to grant loans 23. in the performance of its functions, the exercise of its powers or the discharge of its duties the perbadanan may, with the approval of the m iniste r, grant loans, and such loans may be 

9Perbadanan Labuan granted subject to such terms and conditions as the perbadanan may, with the appro val of the m inister, deem fit to impose in particular cases. power to establish corporations 24. () t he perbadanan may from time to time, with the approval of the m inister, by order published in the Gazette , establish a corporation, by such name as the perbadanan may think fit, to carry out and have the charge, conduct and management of any project, scheme or enterprise which has been planned or undertaken by the perbadanan in the performance of its functions, the exercise of its powers or the discharge of its duties. () t he provisions of the t hird s chedule shall apply to every corporation established by the perbadanan under subsection ( ). Acquisition of land 25. () w hen any land in the f ederal t erritory of l abuan, not being s tate land, is needed to be acquired by the perbadanan for the purposes of this a ct, such land may be acquired in accordance with the provisions of any written law for the time being in force in the f ederal t erritory of l abuan relating to the acquisition of land for a public purpose, and any declaration required by any such written law that such land is so needed may be made notwithstanding that compensation is to be paid by the perbadanan, and such declaration shall have effect as if it were a declaration that such land is needed for a public purpose in accordance with such written law. () a ll expenses and compensation payable for the acquisition of any land under this section shall be paid by the perbadanan. () w here any land has been acquired under this section, the perbadanan shall extract the necessary documents of title in respect of such land and shall pay any rent to which such land may be subject.

0 Laws of Malaysia Act 609 Part vi Gene Ral Obligation of secrecy 26. () e xcept for any of the purposes of this a ct or for the purpose of any civil or criminal proceedings under any written law, no member, officer or servant of the perbadanan shall disclose any information which has been obtained by him in the course of his duties and which is not published in pursuance of this a ct. () a ny person contravening subsection ( ) commits an offence and shall on conviction be liable to imprisonment, for a term not exceeding six months or to a fine not exceeding one thousand ringgit or to both. protection of officers and servants 27. n o action or prosecution shall be brought, instituted or maintained in any court against— (a) the Chief e xecutive o fficer or any other officer or servant duly appointed under this a ct for or on account of or in respect of any act ordered to be done or done for the purpose of carrying this a ct into effect; and (b) any other person for or on account of or in respect of any act done or purported to be done by him under the order, direction or instruction of the Chief e xecutive o fficer or any other officer or servant duly appointed under this a ct if the act was done in good faith and in a reasonable belief that it was necessary for the purpose intended to be served by it. public Authorities protection Act 1948 28. t he public a uthorities protection a ct 948 [ Act 198 ] shall apply to any action, suit, prosecution or proceedings against the perbadanan or against any member, officer, servant or agent of the perbadanan in respect of any act, neglect or default done or committed by him in such capacity.

Perbadanan Labuan public servants 29. a ll members, officers and servants of the perbadanan, while discharging their duties as such members, officers and servants, shall be deemed to be public servants within the meaning of the penal Code [ Act 574 ]. power to make regulations 30. () t he perbadanan may, with the approval of the m inister make such regulations as may be expedient or necessary for the better carrying out of the provisions of this a ct. () w ithout prejudice to the generality of subsection ( ) regulations may be made for— (a) regulating the development of land in the f ederal t erritory of l abuan and generally providing for the orderly development of land in the f ederal t erritory of l abuan; (b) prescribing the manner in which documents, cheques and instruments of any description shall be signed or executed on behalf of the perbadanan; (c) prescribing the responsibilities and control of officers and servants of the perbadanan; (d) imposing fees in such cases as may be determined by the perbadanan; (e) providing for such matters in connection with shares stock, bonds, debentures or debenture stock issue under this a ct as may appear necessary or expedient to the perbadanan, and, in particular, for regulating the method of issue, transfer, redemption or other dealing with such shares, stock, bond, debentures or debenture stock; (f) prescribing the rate for contribution to the improvement s ervice f und; (g) prescribing the manner in which and the terms and conditions on which loans may be granted by the perbadanan under section ; and

 Laws of Malaysia Act 609 (h) providing generall y for the performance of the functions, the exercise of the powers and the discharge of the duties of the perbadanan under the provisions of this a ct. () Regulations under this section— (a) may provide that any act or omission in contravention of any provision of such regulations shall be an offence; (b) may provide for the imposition of penalties for such offences which shall not exceed five hundred thousand ringgit; (c) may provide for the imposition of an additional penalty up to fifty per cent for a similar recurring offence; and (d) may provide for the compounding of offences under this a ct and such regulations. P art vii Repeal , savin Gs and t Ransitional Interpretation in relation to part VII 31. in this part, unless the context otherwise requires— “repealed a ct” means the l embaga pembangunan l abuan a ct 99 [ Act 480 ] repealed under section ; “appointed day” means the day this a ct comes into operation or, where different dates have been appointed for different provisions of this a ct, the day this part comes into operation; “dissolved l embaga” means the l embaga pembangunan l abuan dissolved under section ; “dissolved Council” means the l abuan m unicipal Council dissolved under section ; “revoked instrument” means the l abuan m unicipal Council instrument 98  [ Sabah No. S34 of 1983 ] revoked under section .

Perbadanan Labuan r epeal and dissolution 32. () t he l embaga pembangunan l abuan a ct 99 is repealed and the l embaga pembangunan l abuan ( e xercise of powers by l abuan m unicipal Council) o rder 997 [ P.U. (A) 241/1997 ] and the l abuan m unicipal Council instrument 98 are revoked. () t he l embaga pembangunan l abuan established under the repealed a ct and the l abuan m unicipal Council established under the revoked instrument are dissolved. t ransfer of powers, etc. 33. t he powers, rights, privileges, liabilities, obligations and duties that before the appointed day were those of the dissolved l embaga and the dissolved Council shall devolve as from that day on the perbadanan. t ransfer of property 34. () a ll lands that before the appointed day were vested in, or reserved under any written law relating to land for the purposes of, the dissolved l embaga and the dissolved Council shall on that day vest in or be deemed to be reserved for the purposes of the perbadanan. () a ll property and assets other than land that before the appointed day were vested in the dissolved l embaga and the dissolved Council or in any person on behalf of the dissolved l embaga or the dissolved Council, as the case may be, shall on that day vest in the perbadanan. () a ll deeds, agreements, instruments and arrangements subsisting before the appointed day and affecting any of the property transferred under this section shall have full force and effect against or in favour of the perbadanan and shall be enforceable as fully and effectually as if, instead of the dissolved l embaga or the dissolved Council or any person acting on behalf of the dissolved l embaga or the dissolved Council, the perbadanan had been named therein or had been a party thereto.

4 Laws of Malaysia Act 609 t ransfer of mon eys to the Fund 35. () a ll moneys standing in or due to be paid to the fund of the dissolved l embaga shall on the appointed day be transferred to and be deemed to be part of the f und. () t he fund established by the dissolved Council under the l ocal Government o rdinance s abah [ Sabah Ord. 11 of 1961 ] is dissolved and all moneys standing in or due to be paid to such fund shall on the appointed day be transferred to and be deemed to be part of the f und. Membership of dissolved Lembaga and dissolved c ouncil 36. () n otwithstanding anything to the contrary, the persons who held office immediately before the appointed day as members of the dissolved l embaga and the dissolved Council and members of any committee appointed under the revoked instrument shall cease to hold office on the appointed day. () n othing in subsection ( ) shall affect the accountability of the outgoing members of the dissolved l embaga and the dissolved Council. () a s soon as practicable after the appointed day, the dissolved l embaga and the dissolved Council shall prepare and submit to the m inister the reports, including the financial statements, required under the repealed a ct or the l ocal Government o rdinance of s abah for the period from  January of the relevant year to the day before the appointed day. (4) n otwithstanding section , the dissolved l embaga and the dissolved Council shall be deemed to continue to exist for the purposes of subsections ( ) and ( ). c ontinuance of officers and servants 37. t he persons who immediately before the appointed day were employed as officers and servants of the dissolved l embaga or the dissolved Council shall become officers and servants of the perbadanan under this a ct as if those persons had been appointed under subsection () of this a ct on the same terms and conditions as applied to those persons immediately before the app ointed day.

5Perbadanan Labuan c ontinuance of pending applications, etc. 38. () a ll applications, approvals or decisions, on appeal or otherwise, pending before the dissolved l embaga or the dissolved Council immediately before the appointed day shall on the appointed day be dealt with by the perbadanan under this a ct and the relevant laws. () a ll instruments, certificates or documents lodged with the dissolved l embaga or the dissolved Council before the appointed day shall on the appointed day be deemed to have been lodged with the perbadanan and shall continue to be lodged with the perbadanan. () a ny proceedings, whether civil or criminal, or cause of action pending or existing before the appointed day by or against the dissolved l embaga or the dissolved Council or any person acting on behalf of the dissolved l embaga or the dissolved Council may be continued or instituted by or against the perbadanan as it might have been by or against the dissolved l embaga, the dissolved Council or such person if this a ct had not been enacted. (4) a ny appeal brought or any leave to appeal applied for on or after the appointed day against a decision given before that day in any legal proceedings to which the dissolved l embaga or the dissolved Council was a party may be brought or applied for by or against the perbadanan. r eference in law or document 39. () a reference in any law or document to the dissolved l embaga or the dissolved Council shall be construed as a reference to the perbadanan. () a reference in any law or document to the Chairman of the dissolved l embaga or to the president of the dissolved Council shall be construed as a reference to the Chairman of the perbadanan.

6 Laws of Malaysia Act 609 FIrst schedule [s ubsection 5(5)] Appointment, revocation and resignation 1. () s ubject to such conditions as may be specified in his instrument of appointment, a member of the perbadanan shall hold office for a term not exceeding three years and is eligible for reappointment. () t he appointment of any member may at any time be revoked by the m inister without assigning any reason for the revocation. () a member may at any time resign his office by letter addressed to the m inister. Member of perbadanan to devote time to business of the perbadanan 2. e very member of the perbadanan shall devote such time to the business of the perbadanan as may be necessary to discharge his duties effectively. Vacation of office 3. t he office of a member of the perbadanan is vacated— (a) if he dies; (b) if there has been proved against him, or he has been convicted on, a charge in respect of— (i) an offence involving fraud, dishonesty or moral turpitude; (ii) an offence under any law relating to corruption or under section 6; or (iii) any other offence punishable with imprisonment (in itself only or in addition to or in lieu of a fine) for more than two years; (c) if he becomes a bankrupt; (d) if he is of unsound mind or is otherwise incapable of discharging his duties; (e) if he absents himself from three consecutive meetings of the perbadanan without leave of the Chairman; (f) if his resignation is accepted, by the m inister; or (g) if his appointment is revoked by the m inister. Filling of vacancy 4. w here any person ceases to be a member of the perbadanan by reason of any of the provisions of this a ct, the m inister may appoint another person to fill the vacancy.

7Perbadanan Labuan r emuneration or allowance 5. t here may be paid to the members of the perbadanan such remuneration or allowance as the m inister may determine. Meetings 6. () t he perbadanan shall meet at least once in every two months at such time and place as may be appointed by the Chairman. () t he Chairman shall preside at a meeting of the perbadanan. () t he quorum of the perbadanan shall be four. (4) e very member of the perbadanan present shall be entitled to one vote. (5) i f on a question to be determined by the perbadanan there is an equality of votes, the Chairman shall have a casting vote. perbadanan may invite others to meetings 7. t he perbadanan may invite any other person to attend any meeting or discussion of the perbadanan for the purpose of advising it on any matter under discussion, but any person so attending shall have no right to vote at the meeting or discussion. c ommon seal 8. () t he perbadanan shall have a common seal which shall bear such device as the perbadanan shall approve and such seal may be broken, changed, altered or made anew as the perbadanan may think fit. () u ntil a seal is provided by the perbadanan, a stamp bearing the words “perbadanan l abuan” may be used and shall be deemed to be the common seal of the perbadanan. () t he common seal shall be kept in the custody of the Chairman or such other person as may be authorized by the perbadanan, and shall be authenticated by the Chairman or such authorized person or by any officer authorized by either of them in writing; and all deeds, documents or other instruments purporting to be sealed with that seal, authenticated as specified in this subparagraph, shall, until the contrary is proved, be deemed to have been validly executed. (4) n otwithstanding subparagraph ( ), any document or instrument which if executed by a person who is not a body corporate would not be required to be under seal may in like manner be executed by the perbadanan; and any 

8 Laws of Malaysia Act 609 such document or instrument may be executed on behalf of the perbadanan by any officer or servant of the perbadanan generally or specially authorized by the perbadanan in that behalf. (5) t he common seal of the perbadanan shall be officially and judicially noticed. d isclosure of interest 9. a member of the perbadanan having, directly or indirectly, by himself or his partner, any interest in any company or undertaking with which the perbadanan proposes to make any contract or having any interest in any such contract or in any matter under discussion by the perbadanan shall disclose to the perbadanan the fact and the nature of his interest and such disclosure shall be recorded in the minutes of the perbadanan and, unless specifically authorized by the Chairman, such member shall take no part in any discussion or decision of the perbadanan relating to the contract or matter. Minutes 10. () t he perbadanan shall cause minutes of all its meetings to be maintained and kept in a proper form. () a ny minutes made of a meeting of the perbadanan shall, if duly signed, be admissible in evidence in all legal proceedings without further proof. () e very meeting of the perbadanan in respect of the proceedings of which minutes have been made in accordance with subparagraphs ( ) and ( ) shall be deemed to have been duly convened and held and all members thereat to have been duly qualified to act. Validity of acts and proceedings 11. n o act done or proceeding taken under this a ct shall be questioned on the ground of— (a) any vacancy in the membership of, or any defect in the constitution of, the perbadanan; (b) the contravention by any member of the perbadanan of the provisions of paragraph 9; or (c) any omission, defect or irregularity not affecting the merits of the case. procedure 12. s ubject to this a ct, the perbadanan shall determine its own procedure.

9Perbadanan Labuan second schedule [s ubsection 6( )] Appointment, revocation and resignation 1. () s ubject to such conditions as maybe specified in his instrument of appointment, a member of the a dvisory Council shall hold office for a term not exceeding three years and is eligible for reappointment. () t he appointment of any member of the a dvisory Council may at any time be revoked by the m inister without assigning any reason for the revocation. () a member of the a dvisory Council may at any time resign his office by letter addressed to the m inister. (4) e very member of the a dvisory Council shall devote such time to the business of the a dvisory Council as is necessary to discharge his duties effectively. Vacation of office 2. () t he office of a member of the a dvisory Council is vacated— (a) if he dies; (b) if there has been proved against him, or he has been convicted on, a charge in respect of— (i) an offence involving fraud, dishonesty or moral turpitude; (ii) an offence under any law relating to corruption or under section 6; or (iii) any other offence punishable with imprisonment (in itself only or in addition to or in lieu of a fine) for more than two years; (c) if he becomes bankrupt; (d) if he is of unsound mind or is otherwise incapable of discharging his duties; (e) if he absents himself from three consecutive meetings of the a dvisory Council without leave of the chairman; (f) if his resignation is accepted by the m inister; or (g) if his appointment is revoked by the m inister. () w here any person ceases to be a member of the a dvisory Council by reason of any of the provisions of this a ct, another person shall be appointed in his place under subsection 6( ).

0 Laws of Malaysia Act 609 r emuneration or allowance 3. t here may be paid to members of the a dvisory Council or any other person (not being an officer or servant of the perbadanan) such remuneration or allowance as the m inister may determine. Meetings 4. () t he a dvisory Council shall meet at least once in every two months at such time and place as may be appointed by the chairman. () t he chairman shall preside at a meeting of the a dvisory Council. () t he quorum of the a dvisory Council shall be five. (4) e very member of the a dvisory Council present shall be entitled to one vote. (5) i f on a question to be determined by the a dvisory Council there is an equality of votes, the chairman shall have a casting vote. d isclosure of interest 5. a member of the a dvisory Council having, directly or indirectly, by himself or his partner, any interest in any company or undertaking with which the perbadanan proposes to make any contract or having any interest in any such contract or in any matter under discussion by the a dvisory Council shall disclose to the a dvisory Council the fact and the nature of his interest and such disclosure shall be recorded in the minutes of the a dvisory Council and, unless specifically authorized by the chairman, such member shall not take part in any discussion or decision of the a dvisory Council relating to the contract or matter. Minutes 6. () t he a dvisory Council shall cause minutes of all its meetings to be maintained and kept in a proper form. () a ny minutes made of meetings of the a dvisory Council shall, if duly signed, be admissible in evidence in all legal proceedings without further proof and every meeting of the a dvisory Council in respect of the proceedings of which minutes have been so made shall be deemed to have been duly convened and held and all members thereat to have been duly qualified to act. Validity of acts and proceedings 7. n o act done or proceedings taken under this a ct shall be questioned on the ground of— (a) any vacancy in the membership of, or any defect in the constitution of, the a dvisory Council;

Perbadanan Labuan (b) the contravention by any member of the a dvisory Council of the provisions of paragraph 5; or (c) any omission, defect or irregularity not affecting the merits of the case. procedure 8. s ubject to this a ct, the a dvisory Council shall determine its own procedure. t h Ird schedule [s ubsection 4()] power of the perbadanan to make regulations in respect of corporation 1. t he perbadanan shall, on or before the date on which any corporation is established under section 4, make regulations in respect of such corporation defining— (a) the purposes and objects for which the corporation is established; (b) the rights, powers, duties and functions of the corporation; (c) the system of management of the corporation; and (d) the relations between the corporation and the perbadanan and the perbadanan’s rights of control over the corporation. Limitation on power to establish corporation 2. n othing in paragraph  shall be deemed to authorize the perbadanan to make regulations to confer on any corporation any purpose or object more extensive in scope than the purposes or objects for which the perbadanan has been constituted or to confer on any corporation any right, duty, power or function which is not within the rights, duties, powers or functions of the perbadanan under this a ct. e ffect of regulations 3. s ubject to the provisions of this a ct and of any regulations made under section 0, any regulations made under paragraph  shall be binding on the corporation in respect of which they were made and shall have effect for all purposes as if they had been enacted in this a ct. Amendment of regulations 4. t he perbadanan may at any time amend, revoke or add to any regulations made under paragraph  in respect of any corporation.

 Laws of Malaysia Act 609 r egister of corporations 5. t he perbadanan shall keep a register in the prescribed form of all corporations established by it under section 4 and the register, together with copies of all regulations made under paragraphs  and 4, shall be open to public inspection at such place or places and at such time as it may prescribe. Winding up 6. () t he perbadanan may, with the approval of the m inister, by order published in the Gazette , wind up and dissolve any corporation established by it. () u pon the dissolution of any corporation under this paragraph, the assets of the corporation after discharging all its liabilities shall be transferred to and shall vest in the perbadanan. () t he winding up of a corporation under this paragraph shall be conducted in such manner as the perbadanan may prescribe. c orporation to be body corporate 7. e very corporation established under section 4 shall be a body corporate by such name as the perbadanan shall give to it and shall have perpetual succession and a common seal and may sue and be sued in such name and, for the purpose of carrying into effect the project, scheme or enterprise for which it has been established, may enter into contracts and may hold and deal in or with any immovable or movable property and may do all other matters and things incidental or appertaining to a body corporate consistent with the provisions of this a ct and subject to such restrictions or limitations as may be prescribed by the perbadanan in each case. c ommon seal of corporation 8. () e very corporation shall have a common seal which shall bear such device as the corporation, with the approval of the perbadanan, may approve and such seal may be broken, changed, altered or made anew as the corporation, with the approval of the perbadanan, thinks fit. () u ntil a seal is provided by the corporation, a stamp bearing the name of the corporation encircling the letters “ pl ” may be used and shall be deemed to be the common seal of the corporation. () t he common seal shall be kept in the custody of such person as may be authorized by the corporation, and shall be authenticated by that person; and all deeds, documents and other instruments purporting to be sealed with that seal, authenticated as specified in this subpar agraph, shall, until the contrary is proved, be deemed to have been validly executed.

Perbadanan Labuan (4) n otwithstanding subparagraph ( ), any document or instrument which if executed by a person who is not a body corporate would not be required to be under seal may in like manner be executed by the corporation; and any such document or instrument may be executed on behalf of the corporation by any officer or servant of the corporation generally or specially authorized by the corporation in that behalf. (5) t he common seal of every corporation shall be officially and judicially noticed.

4 Laws of Malaysia Act 609 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 609 perb Ad An An LA bu An Act 2001 list of amendments a mending law s hort title in force from – nil –

5Perbadanan Labuan LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 609 perb Ad An An LA bu An Act 2001 list of se Ction s amended s ection a mending authority in force from – nil –

6 Laws of Malaysia Act 609