LAWS OF MALAYSIA ONLINE VERSION OF UPDATED TEXT OF REPRINT Act 776 NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL ACT 2016 As at 15 January 2021 

2 NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL ACT 2016 Date of Royal Assent … … … 18 February 2016 (pursuant to Clause (4A) of Article 66 of the Federal Constitution) Date of publication in the Gazette … 7 June 2016 Latest amendment made by Act A1625 which came into operation on … … 1 November 2020 

3 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 776 NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL ACT 2016 ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS PART I PRELIMINARY Section 1. Short title and commencement 2. Interpretation PART II NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL 3. Establishment of the National Security Council 4. Functions of the Council 5. Powers of the Council 6. Membership of the Council 7. Meetings 8. Procedure at meetings 9. Temporary exercise of functions of the Chairman 10. Council may invite others to meetings 11. Procedures 

4 Laws of Malaysia ACT 776 Section 12. Council may establish committees 13. Secretary to the Council 14. Fund PART III DUTIES OF THE DIRECTOR GENERAL OF NATIONAL SECURITY AND GOVERNMENT ENTITIES 15. Appointment of the Director General of National Security and officers 16. Duties and powers of the Director General 17. Duties of Government Entities in relation to information or intelligence PART IV DECLARATION OF SECURITY AREA 18. Declaration of security area 19. Executive order of the Council 20. Director of Operations 21. Duties and powers of Director of Operations PART V SPECIAL POWERS OF THE DIRECTOR OF OPERATIONS AND SECURITY FORCES DEPLOYED TO THE SECURITY AREA 22. Exclusion and evacuation of persons 23. Curfew 24. Power to control movement, roads, etc. 25. Power of arrest 26. Power to search and seize 27. Power to search premises for dangerous things 

National Security Council 5 Section 28. Power to search persons for dangerous things 29. Power to seize vehicle, vessel, aircraft or conveyance 30. Power to take temporary possession of land, building or movable property 31. Demand for use of resources 32. Compensation 33. Power to order destruction of certain unoccupied buildings 34. Use of reasonable and necessary force 35. Power to dispense with inquests, etc. 36. Arrested persons and things seized to be handed over to police PART VI GENERAL 37. Obligations of secrecy 38. Protection against suits and legal proceedings 39. Public servant 40. Public Authorities Protection Act 1948 41. Prosecution 42. Regulations 42A. Liability of director, etc., of company, etc. 42B. Liability of person for act, etc., of employee, etc. PART VII SAVINGS 43. Existing National Security Council 44. Existing Committees

 

7 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 776 NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL ACT 2016 An Act to provide for the establishment of the National Security Council, the declaration of security areas, the special powers of the Security Forces in the security areas and other related matters. [Throughout Malaysia ―1 August 2016,, P.U. (B) 310/2016] ENACTED by the Parliament of Malaysia as follows: PART I PRELIMINARY Short title and commencement 1. (1) This Act may be cited as the National Security Council Act 2016. (2) This Act comes into operation on a date to be appointed by the Prime Minister by notification in the Gazette. Interpretation 2. (1) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires— “armed forces” has the meaning assigned to it in the Armed Forces Act 1972 [Act 77]; 

 8 Laws of Malaysia ACT 776 “dangerous things” includes firearms, ammunition, explosive substances, weapons or any other thing that is reasonably likely to be used to cause serious damage to property, or death or serious injury to a person; “Government Entities” includes― (a) any ministry, department, office, agency, authority, commission, committee, board or council of the Federal Government, or of any of the State Governments, established under any written law or otherwise; (b) any local authorities; and (c) the Security Forces; “security area” means any area declared by the Yang di-Pertuan Agong under section 18; “Director General” means the Director General of National Security appointed under section 15; “Council” means the National Security Council established under section 3; “Security Forces” means― (a) the Royal Malaysia Police, the Royal Malaysia Police Volunteer Reserve and the Auxiliary Police referred to in the Police Act 1967 [Act 344]; (b) the armed forces; (c) any force which is a visiting force for the purposes of Part I of the Visiting Forces Act 1960 [Act 432]; or (d) the Malaysian Maritime Enforcement Agency established under the Malaysian Maritime Enforcement Agency Act 2004 [Act 633]; 

National Security Council 9 “Director of Operations” means any person appointed by the Council under section 20; “Chairman” means the Chairman of the Council referred to in section 6; “declaration” means the declaration of a security area made under section 18. PART II NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL Establishment of the National Security Council 3. (1) A Council by the name of the “National Security Council” is established. (2) The Council shall be the Government’s central authority for considering matters concerning national security. Functions of the Council 4. The Council shall have the following functions: (a) to formulate policies and strategic measures on national security, including sovereignty, territorial integrity, defence, socio -political stability, economic stability, strategic resources, national unity and other interests relating to national security; (b) to monitor the implementation of the policies and strategic measures on national security; (c) to advise on the declaration of security areas; and (d) to perform any other functions relating to national security for the proper implementation of this Act. 

 10 Laws of Malaysia ACT 776 Powers of the Council 5. Notwithstanding any other written law, the Council shall have the power to do all things necessary or expedient for or in connection with the performance of its functions including― (a) to control and coordinate Government Entities on operations concerning national security; and (b) to issue directives to any Government Entity on matters concerning national security. Membership of the Council 6. (1) The Council shall consist of the following members: (a) the Prime Minister as Chairman; (b) (Deleted by Act A1625); (c) the Minister charged with the responsibility for defence; (d) the Minister charged with the responsibility for home affairs; (e) the Minister charged with the responsibility for communication and multimedia; (f) the Chief Secretary to the Government; (g) the Chief of Defence Forces; and (h) the Inspector General of Police. (2) The Chairman shall appoint from amongst the members of the Council a Deputy Chairman. 

National Security Council 11 Meetings 7. (1) The Council shall convene its meetings as often as may be necessary but which shall not be less than once in every three months. (2) The meetings shall be held at the time and place as determined by the Chairman. Procedure at meetings 8. (1) The Chairman shall preside at all meetings of the Council. (2) If the Chairman is absent from any meeting of the Council, he may appoint the Deputy Chairman or, in the absence of the Deputy Chairman, any other member of the Council, to replace him as the chairman of the meeting. (3) The quorum of the Council shall be five. Temporary exercise of functions of Chairman 9. (1) The Deputy Chairman shall act as the Chairman for the period when― (a) the office of the Chairman is vacant; (b) the Chairman is absent from duty or from Malaysia; or (c) the Chairman is, for any other reason, unable to carry out his functions. (2) The Deputy Chairman shall, during the period in which he is carrying out the functions of the Chairman under this section, be deemed to be the Chairman. 

 12 Laws of Malaysia ACT 776 Council may invite others to meetings 10. The Council may invite any person not being a member of the Council to attend its meetings to advise the Council on any matter under discussion. Procedures 11. Subject to this Act, the Council may determine its own procedure. Council may establish committees 12. (1) The Council may establish any committee as it considers necessary or expedient to assist it in the performance of its functions. (2) The Council may appoint any person to be a member of any committee established under subsection (1). (3) The Council may appoint any of its members or any other person to be the chairman of the committee established under subsection (1). (4) The committee shall be subject to and act in accordance with any direction given by the Council. (5) The committee shall meet as often as may be necessary at the time and place as the chairman of the committee may determine. (6) The committee may regulate its own procedure. (7) The committee may invite any other person to attend any meeting of the committee for the purpose of advising the committee on any matter under discussion. 

National Security Council 13 Secretary to the Council 13. (1) The Director General shall be the Secretary to the Council. (2) The Secretary shall be responsible— (a) for the overall administration and management of the functions and the day-to-day affairs of the Council; and (b) for the carrying out of any other duties as directed by the Council. (3) The Secretary shall, in carrying out his responsibilities, act under the direction of the Council. Fund 14. The Government shall provide sufficient funds for the Council annually to enable the Council to perform its functions under this Act. PART III DUTIES OF THE DIRECTOR GENERAL OF NATIONAL SECURITY AND GOVERNMENT ENTITIES Appointment of the Director General of National Security and officers 15. (1) The Prime Minister shall, upon the recommendation of the Chief Secretary to the Government, appoint a person from amongst the public officers to be the Director General of National Security. (2) There shall be appointed Deputies Director General of National Security and such number of other officers and servants from amongst the public officers as is considered necessary or expedient for the purposes of carrying out and giving effect to the provisions of this Act. 

 14 Laws of Malaysia ACT 776 (3) The Director General shall be responsible to the Council in the performance of his duties under this Act. (4) The Deputies Director General and such other officers and servants referred to in subsection (2) shall be subject to the general direction and supervision of the Director General. Duties and powers of the Director General 16. (1) The Director General shall have such duties and powers as may be imposed or conferred upon him by the Council. (2) Without prejudice to the generality of subsection (1), the Director General shall have the following duties: (a) to implement the policies and strategic measures on national security formulated by the Council; (b) to coordinate and monitor the implementation of the policies and strategic measures on national security by the Government Entities; (c) to advise and make recommendations to the Council on strategic measures concerning national security; (d) to collect, evaluate, correlate and coordinate the information and intelligence from all Government Entities, and to disseminate the information and intelligence to the Government Entities as may be essential in the interest of national security; (e) to supervise and monitor the implementation of the declaration of a security area and any executive order issued; (f) to issue directives to the Government Entities on national security measures; and (g) to perform such other duties as directed by the Council. 

National Security Council 15 (3) Notwithstanding subsection (2), the supervisory and monitoring functions conferred on the Director General shall not extend to the operational control of the Security Forces. Duties of Government Entities in relation to information or intelligence 17. (1) In the interest of national security, the Government Entities shall immediately report to the Council through the Director General any information or intelligence that affects or is likely to affect national security together with the assessment of the credibility of such information or intelligence. (2) Upon direction by the Council, any Government Entity or any person shall immediately make available any information or intelligence in its or his possession which relates to national security to the Council through the Director General. (3) For the purp oses of this section, the Council may issue a directive to facilitate the sharing of information and intelligence between the Government Entities. PART IV DECLARATION OF SECURITY AREA Declaration of security area 18. (1) Where the Council advises the Yang di-Pertuan Agong that the security in any area in Malaysia is seriously disturbed or threatened by any person, matter or thing which causes or is likely to cause serious harm to the people, or serious harm to the territories, economy, national key inf rastructure of Malaysia or any other interest of Malaysia, and requires immediate national response, the Yang di - Pertuan Agong may, if he considers it to be necessary in the interest of national security, declare in writing the area as a security area. (2) A declaration made under subsection (1) shall― 

 16 Laws of Malaysia ACT 776 (a) apply only to such security area as specified in the declaration; and (b) cease to have effect upon the expiration of the period specified in subsection (3) or upon the expiration of the period of renewal specified in subsection (4), or in accordance with subsection (6). (3) A declaration made under subsection (1) shall, but without prejudice to anything previously done by virtue of the declaration, cease to have effect upon the expiration of six months from the date it comes into force. (4) Notwithstanding subsection (3), a declaration in force may be renewed by the Yang di-Pertuan Agong, on the advice of the Council, from time to time for such period, not exceeding six months at a time, as may be specified in the declaration. (5) A declaration made under subsection (1) and a renewal of declaration made under subsection (4) shall be published in such manner as the Prime Minister thinks necessary for bringing it to the notice of the public. (6) A declaration made under subsection (1) and the renewal of declaration made under subsection (4) shall be published in the Gazette and laid before both Houses of Parliament as soon as possible after it has been made, and if resolutions are passed by bo th Houses of Parliament annulling the declaration, it shall cease to have effect, notwithstanding subsections (3) and (4), but without prejudice to anything previously done by virtue of the declaration. (7) Notwithstanding anything in subsection (2 ), (3), (4) or (6), the Yang di-Pertuan Agong may, on the advice of the Council, at any time, revoke the declaration. 

National Security Council 17 Executive order of the Council 19. (1) Upon a declaration being made under section 18, the Council may issue an executive order to the Director of Operations or such Government Entities as the Council deems necessary in relation to the security area in the interest of national security. (2) The executive order issued by the Council may include the deployment of any Security Forces or any other relevant Government Entities to the security area. (3) The Council may amend, replace or revoke the executive order issued under subsection (1). (4) The executive order shall remain in force until it is revoked by the Council but notwithstanding this it shall cease to have effect if the declaration made under section 18 ceases to have effect or is revoked. Director of Operations 20. (1) The Council shall appoint a Director of Operations to be the person in charge of the operations in a security area. (2) The Director of Operations shall be responsible to the Council. Duties and powers of Director of Operations 21. (1) The Director of Operations shall have the following duties: (a) to prepare strategic plans for the deployment of the Security Forces to the security area and to provide strategic direction to such Security Forces; (b) to establish unified commands of the Security Forces in the security area; (c) to supervise, control and co-ordinate the deployment of the Security Forces to the security area; and 

 18 Laws of Malaysia ACT 776 (d) to perform such other functions as directed by the Council. (2) The Director of Operations shall have the power to do all things necessary or expedient for or in connection with the performance of his duties in the security area. (3) In the interest of national security, the Director of Operations may in relation to a security area— (a) establish a committee as he considers necessary or expedient to assist him in carrying out his duties; (b) issue a directive to any Government Entity deployed to the security area; and (c) request from any individual or entity other than a Government Entity, any information or intelligence in his or its possession. (4) The committee established under paragraph (3) (a) shall be responsible to the Director of Operations. (5) The Government Entities which have been issued with the directive referred to in paragra ph (3) (b) shall comply with the directive. (6) Any individual who fails to comply with the request under paragraph (3)(c) commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to imprisonment for a term not exceeding five years or to a fine not exceeding one hundred thousand ringgit or to both. (7) Any entity other than a Government Entity which fails to comply with the r equest under paragraph (3) (c) commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding two hundred thousand ringgit. 

National Security Council 19 PART V SPECIAL POWERS OF THE DIRECTOR OF OPERATIONS AND SECURITY FORCES DEPLOYED TO THE SECURITY AREA Exclusion and evacuation of persons 22. (1) The Director of Operations may, by order in writing, exclude any person from the security area or any part of the security area for a period as specified in the order. (2) The Director of Operations may, by order in writing, evacuate any person or group of persons from the security area or any part of the security area, and resettle such person or group of persons to an area as determined by the Director of Operations. (3) Any person who fails to comply wit h the order under subsection (1) or (2) commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding five thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding three years or to both. Curfew 23. (1) The Director of Operations may, in writing, order all persons in the security area or any part of the security area to remain indoors between such hours as may be specified in the order unless he is in possession of a written permit in that behalf issued by the Director of Operations. (2) No order under this section shall apply to— (a) the Yang di -Pertuan Agong, a Ruler or Yang di -Pertua Negeri; (b) any member of the Security Forces or personnel of other Government Entities when acting in the course of his duty in the security area; or 

 20 Laws of Malaysia ACT 776 (c) any person or class of persons exempted from the order by the Director of Operations. (3) Any person who fails to comply with the order under subsection (1) commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding five thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding three years or to both. Power to control movement, road, etc. 24. (1) The Director of Operations may direct any member of the Security Forces in the security area— (a) to control the movement of any person or any vehicle, vessel, aircraft or conveyance in and out of the security area, including to direct to leave the security area and to refuse entry into the security area; (b) to control or prohibit the use of any road or water-way in, or air space above, any security area by any person or any vehicle, vessel, aircraft or conveyance; or (c) to close any road or water-way in the security area. (2) If a member of the Security Forces in the security area believes on reasonable grounds that a dangerous thing is in or on any vehicle, vessel, aircraft or conveyance in the security area, the member of the Security Forces may do anything necessary to stop the vehicle, vessel, aircraft or conveyance including erecting barriers or other structures. (3) If the member of the Security Forces stops the vehicle, vessel, aircraft or conveyance, the member of the Security Forces shall not detain it for longer th an is reasonable and necessary to search it and anything found in or on it. 

National Security Council 21 Power of arrest 25. Any member of the Security Forces may, without warrant, arrest any person found committing, alleged to have committed or reasonably suspected of having committed any offence under any written laws in the security area. Power to search and seize 26. (1) Any member of the Security Forces may, without warrant and with or without assistance, stop and search any individual, vehicle, vessel, aircraft or conveyance in the security area if he suspects that any article or thing being evidence of the commission of an offence against any written law is likely to be found on the individual or in the vehicle, vessel, aircraft or conveyance, and may seize any article or thing so found. (2) Any member of the Security Forces may, without warrant, enter and search any premises or place if he suspects that any article or thing being evidence of the commission of an offence against any written law is likely to be found on the premises or place, and may seize any article or thing so found. Power to search premises for dangerous things 27. (1) If any member of the Security Forces believes on reasonable grounds that— (a) there is a dangerous thing on any premises in the security area; and (b) it is necessary as a matter of urgency to make the dangerous thing safe or to prevent it from being used, the member of the Security Forces may— (A) enter into and search the premises; 

 22 Laws of Malaysia ACT 776 (B) seize anything found on the premises in the course of the search that the member of the Security Forces believes on reasonable grounds to be a dangerous thing; and (C) search any person who is at or near the premises where the search is being carried out and seize any dangerous thing found on the person whom the search member believes on reasonable grounds to have any dangerous thing in his possession. (2) If any member of the Security Forces seizes a dangerous thing— (a) the member of the Security Forces may take such action as is reasonable and necessary to make the dangerous thing safe or to prevent it from being used; and (b) the member of the Security Forces shall prepare a list of the dangerous things seized and sign th e list, and shall as soon as practicable serve a copy of the list of the dangerous things seized to the occupier of the premises which have been searched, or to his agent or servant at the premises. (3) If the member of the Security Forces believes on re asonable grounds that the dangerous thing has been used or otherwise involved in the commission of an offence against any written law, the member of the Security Forces shall, as soon as practicable, hand over the dangerous thing to the officer-in-charge of the nearest police station. (4) If the member of the Security Forces believes on reasonable grounds that the dangerous thing has not been used or otherwise involved in the commission of an offence against any written law, the member of the Security Forces shall, if it is practicable to do so, return the dangerous thing to the the occupier of the premises which have been searched, or to his agent or servant at the premises. (5) If the member of the Security Forces seizes a dangerous thing from a person and believes on reasonable grounds that the person used the thing in the commission of an offence against any written law, the member of the Security Forces may detain the person f or the purpose 

National Security Council 23 of placing him in the custody of a police officer at the earliest practicable time. Power to search persons for dangerous things 28. If any member of the Security Forces in the security area believes on reasonable grounds that a person in the area has a dangerous thing in the person’s possession, the member of the Security Forces may— (a) search the person for such dangerous thing; and (b) seize such dangerous thing found in the search. Power to seize vehicle, vessel, aircraft or conveyance 29. Any member of the Security Forces may seize any vehicle, vessel, aircraft or conveyance in the security area if he suspects that the vehicle, vessel, aircraft or conveyance is likely to be connected with the commission of an offence under any written laws. Power to take temporary possession of land, building or movable property 30. (1) The Director of Operations or any person authorized by the Director of Operations may, if it appears to him to be necessary or expedient to do so in the interest of nati onal security, or for the accommodation of any Security Forces, take temporary possession of any land, any building or part of a building, or any movable property in any security area and may give such directions as appear to him necessary or expedient in connection with the taking of possession of that land, building or movable property. (2) Any member of the Security Forces may take such steps and use such force as appears to him to be reasonably necessary for securing compliance with directions given to any person under subsection (1). 

 24 Laws of Malaysia ACT 776 (3) While any land, building or movable property is in temporary possession of the Director of Operations or any person authorized by the Director of Operations under this section, the land, building or movable property may, notwithstanding any restriction imposed on the use thereof (whether by any written law or other instrument or otherwise), be used by, or under the authority of, the Director of Operations or any person authorized by the Director of Operations for such purpose, and in such manner, as the Director of Operations or any person authorized by the Director of Operations thinks expedient in the interest of national security or for the accommodation of any Security Forces. (4) The Director of Operations or any person authorized by the Director of Operations, so far as appears to him to be necessary or expedient in connection with the taking of temporary possession or use of the land, building or movable property in pursuance of subsection (3)— (a) may do, or authorize persons using the land, building or movable property to do, in relation to the land, building or movable property, anything any person having an interest in the land, building or movable property would be entitled to do by virtue of that interest; and (b) may by order provide for prohibiting or restricting the exercise of rights of way over the land or building, and of other rights relating thereto which are enjoyed by any person, whether by virtue of an interest in the land or building or otherwise. (5) The owner or occupier of any land, building or movable property shall, if requested by or on behalf of the Director of Operations or any person authorized by the Director of Operations so to do, furnish to such aut hority or person as may be specified in the request such information in his possession relating to the land, building or movable property, being information which may reasonably be demanded of him in connection with the execution of this section, as may be so specified. (6) Any person aggrieved by reason of the taking possession of any land, building or movable property under this section may, within 

National Security Council 25 fourteen days after possession has been taken, give notice of his objection thereto to an advisory committee appointed under subsection (7). (7) The advisory committee referred to in subsection (6) shall consist of the persons appointed by the Director General and such committee may make rules for the conduct of its proceedings. (8) The chairman of an advisory committee to which such notice has been given under subsection (6) by an aggrieved person shall inform the Director of Operations or any person authorized by the Director of Operations who has taken possession of the land, building or movable property. (9) The advisory committee shall consider the objection made by the aggrieved person under subsection (6) and any grounds which may be put forward against the objection by the Director of Operations or any person authorized by t he Director of Operations who has taken possession of the land, building or movable property and shall forward its recommendations to the Director General. (10) The Director General shall, after considering the recommendations of the advisory committee, give such directions as he thinks fit. (11) If possession is taken of any land, building or movable property in any security area under subsection (1) or the Director General gives direction under subsection (10) to the Director of Operations or any person authorized by the Director of Operations to take temporary possession of any land, building or movable property in the security area, compensation shall be paid to the aggrieved person. Demand for use of resources 31. (1) If it appears to the Director of Operations or any person authorized by the Director of Operations that any resources is required in preserving national security in the security area, the Director of Operations or any person authorized by the Director of Operations may 

 26 Laws of Malaysia ACT 776 demand that such resources be utilized for such purpose. (2) Compensation shall be paid to the person whose resources are demanded under this section. (3) For the purposes of this section, “resources” includes utilities and assets. Compensation 32. If possession is taken of any land, building or movable property under section 30, or resources are demanded to be utilized under section 31, compensation in respect of the possession or utilization shall be as assessed by the Director General. Power to order destruction of certain unoccupied buildings 33. (1) If in any security area any building or structure is left unoccupied by reason of the operation of any order made under this Part, the Director of Operations or any person authorized by the Director of Operations may if it appears to him— (a) to be likely that the building or structure will, if left standing, be used by persons who intend, or are about, to act or have recently acted in a manner prejudicial to national security or by any other person who is likely to harbour any such person; and (b) to be impracticable in any other way to prevent such use, destroy or authorize the destruction of that building or structure. (2) Compensation shall be paid to any aggrieved person in respect of the destruction of any building or structure under this section if the aggrieved person satisfies the Director General that— (a) the building or structure was erected by or with the consent of the person lawfully entitled to the land on which the building or structure was erected; and 

National Security Council 27 (b) the building or structure was not liable to forfeiture under any written law. (3) Compensation may be paid to the aggrieved person in relation to any building or structure erected by or with the consent of the person lawfully entitled to the land on which it was erected, notwithstanding that the building or structure is liable to forfei ture under any written law, if the aggrieved person satisfies the Director General that the building or structure was used by persons who intend, or are about, to act or have recently acted, in a manner prejudicial to national security or that those persons were being or had been harboured by his servant or agent, as the case may be, without his knowledge or consent, and that he exercised all due diligence to prevent the building or structure being so used or the harbouring of those persons, as the case may be. (4) Any compensation payable under this section shall be as assessed by the Director General. Use of reasonable and necessary force 34. (1) Any member of the Security Forces in a security area may use such force against persons and things as is reasonable and necessary in the circumstances to preserve national security. (2) The use of such force against a person shall not— (a) include anything that is likely to cause the death of, or grievous bodily harm to, the person unless the member of the Security Forces believes on reasonable grounds that doing such action is deemed necessary— (i) to protect the life of, or to prevent serious injury to, another person, including the member; or (ii) to protect the security area or any part of the security area against a threat of armed attack; or (b) subject the person to greater indignity than is reasonable and necessary in the circumstances. 

 28 Laws of Malaysia ACT 776 Power to dispense with inquests, etc. 35. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any written law, in the security area— (a) a Magistrate or a coroner may dispense with the holding of a death inquiry or inquest on the dead body of any member of the Security Forces on duty; and (b) where the Magistrate or coroner responsible for holding a death inquiry or inquest upon the body of a ny person is satisfied that the person has been killed in the security area as a result of operations undertaken by the Security Forces for the purpose of enforcing any written laws, the Magistrate or coroner, as the case may be, may dispense with the holding of a death inquiry or inquest on the body of the person. Arrested persons and things seized to be handed over to police 36. Any person arrested and taken into custody under this Act and any things seized shall be handed over to the officer -in-charge of the nearest police station without unnecessary delay, together with a report of the circumstances occasioning the arrest or seizure. PART VI GENERAL Obligations of secrecy 37. (1) Except for any of the purposes of this Act or for the purposes of any civil or criminal proceedings under any written law or where otherwise authorized by the Council— (a) no member of the Council or committee or any person attending any meeting of the Counc il or committee, whether during or after his tenure of office or employment, 

National Security Council 29 shall disclose any information obtained by him in the course of his duties; and (b) no other person who has by any means access to any information or document relating to the affairs of the Council shall disclose such information or document. (2) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to imprisonment for a term not exceeding five years or to a fine not exceeding one h undred thousand ringgit or to both. Protection against suits and legal proceedings 38. No action, suit, prosecution or any other proceeding shall lie or be brought, instituted or maintained in any court against the Council, any committee, any member of the Council or committee, the Director of Operations, or any member of the Security Forces or personnel of other Government Entities in respect of any act, neglect or default done or omitted by it or him in good faith, in such capacity. Public servant 39. Every member of the Council or committee, the Director of Operations, or every memb er of the Security Forces or personnel of other Government Entities while discharging his duty or performing his functions under this Act in such capacity shall be deemed to be a public servant within the meaning of the Penal Code [Act 574]. Public Authorities Protection Act 1948 40. The Public Authorities Protection Act 1948 [Act 198] shall apply to any action, suit, prosecution or proceedings against the Council, any committee, any member of the Council or committee, the Director of Operations, or any member of the Security Forces or personnel of other Government Entities in respect of any act or thing done or committed by it or him in such capacity. 

 30 Laws of Malaysia ACT 776 Prosecution 41. No prosecution for an offence under this Act shall be instituted except by, or with the written consent of, the Public Prosecutor. Regulations 42. (1) The Council may make regulations for the purposes of carrying out or giving effect to the provisions of this Act. (2) Without prejudice to the generality of subsection (1), Council may make regulations— (a) to control the movement of persons, vehicles, vessels, aircrafts and conveyance in any security area; (b) to prescribe any prohibited action and activities during the period of the declaration made under section 18; (c) to prescribe the procedures for the taking possession of land, buildings and other movable property, and the procedures for demand for use of resources in any security area; and (d) to prescribe the procedures for the destruction of buildings and other structures in any security area. (3) The regulations made under this Act may provide for any act or omission in contravention of the regulations to be an offence and may provide for penalties of a fine not exceeding one hundred thousand ringgit or imprisonment for a term not exceeding five years or both. Liability of director, etc., of company, etc. 42A. Where any person who commits anoffence under this Act or any regulations made under this Act is a company, limited liability partnership, firm, society or other body of persons, a person who at the time of the commission of the offence was a director, compliance officer, partner, manager, secre tary or other similar officer of the company, limited liability partnership, firm, society or other body of 

National Security Council 31 persons or was purporting to act in the capacity or was in any manner or to any extent responsible for the management of any of the affairs of the c ompany, limited liability partnership, firm, society or other body of persons or was assisting in its management― (a) may be charged severally or jointly in the same proceedings with the company, limited liability partnership, firm, society or other body of persons; and (b) if the company, limited liability partnership, firm, society or other body of persons is found guilty of the offence, shall be deemed to be guilty of the offence and shall be liable to the same punishment or penalty as an individual unless, having regard to the nature of his functions in that capacity and to all circumstances, he proves― (i) that the offence was committed without his knowledge; and (ii) that the offence was committed without his consent or connivance and that he had taken all reasonable precautions and exercised due diligence to prevent the commission of the offence. Liability of person for act, etc., of employee, etc. 42B. Where any person would be liable to any punishment or penalty under this Act or any regulations made under this Act for any act, omission, neglect or default committed― (a) by that person’s employee in the course of his employment; (b) by that person’s agent when acting on behalf of that person; or (c) by the employee of that person’s agent when acting in the course of his employment by that person’s agent or 

 32 Laws of Malaysia ACT 776 otherwise on behalf that person’s agent acting on behalf of that person, that person shall be liable to the same punishment or penalty for every such act, omission, neglect or default of that person’s employee or agent, or of the employee of that person’s agent. PART VII SAVINGS Existing National Security Council 43. (1) Any act done or action taken prior to the commencement of this Act by the existing National Security Council established by the Federal Government shall be deemed to have been done or taken under this Act and may accordingly be continued by the Council. (2) Any directive, order or decision made by the existing National Security Council and in force immediately before the commencement of this Act shall, upon the commencement of this Act, so far as it is not inconsistent with this Act continue to remain in force until it is revoked by the Council. Existing committees 44. All committees established under the existing National Security Council and in force immediately before the commencement of this Act shall, upon the commencement of this Act, continue to remain in force until dissolved by the Council. _________________________ 

33 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 776 NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL ACT 2016 LIST OF AMENDMENTS _________________ Amending law Short title In force from Act A1625 National Security Council (Amendment) Act 2020 012020 

34 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 776 NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL ACT 2016 LIST OF AMENDMENTS ______________ Section Amending authority In force from 2 Act A1625 012020 6 Act A1625 012020 8 Act A1625 012020 18 Act A1625 012020 21 Act A1625 012020 37 Act A1625 012020 42 Act A1625 012020 42A Act A1625 012020 42B Act A1625 012020