LAWS OF MALAYSIA ONLINE VERSION OF UPDATED TEXT OF REPRINT Act 342 PREVENTION AND CONTROL OF INFECTIOUS DISEASES ACT 1988 As at 1 July 2020 

2 PREVENTION AND CONTROL OF INFECTIOUS DISEASES ACT 1988 Date of Royal Assent … … … 13 August 1988 Date of publication in the Gazette … 8 September 1988 Latest amendment made by P.U. (A) 179/2020 which came into operation on … … 10 June 2020 PREVIOUS REPRINTS First Reprint … … … 2001 Second Reprint … … … 2006 

3 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 342 PREVENTION AND CONTROL OF INFECTIOUS DISEASES ACT 1988 ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS PART I PRELIMINARY Section 1. Short title, application and commencement 2. Interpretation PART II ADMINISTRATION 3. Appointment of authorized officers 4. Limitation of liability 5. Police assistance, etc. PART III PREVENTION OF IMPORTATION OF INFECTIOUS DISEASE 6. Declaration of infected area 7. Entry into and examination of vehicles and the measures thereafter 8. Time for examination 9. Importation or exportat ion of human remains and pathogenic organism or substance 

 4 Laws of Malaysia ACT 342 PART IV CONTROL OF THE SPREAD OF INFECTIOUS DISEASE Section 10. Requirement to notify infectious disease 11. Declaration of an infected local area 12. Infected persons not to act in a manner likely to sp read infectious disease 13. Control of contaminated articles and infected animals 14. Isolation of infected persons and suspects 15. Observation or surveillance of contacts 16. Order for examination of corpse 17. Disposal of the dead 18. Disinfection and closure of premises 19. Destruction of structures 20. Selling or letting contaminated buildings 21. Power to order disinfection of certain vehicles PART V OFFENCES AND PENALTIES 22. Offences generally 23. Prosecution 24. General penalty 25. Compounding of offences PART VI MISCELLANEOUS 26. Requisition of premises 27. Seizure and disposal of contaminated articles, etc. 28. Recovery of costs and expenses 29. Exemption 30. Power to vary Schedule 

Prevention and Control of Infectious Diseases 5 Section 31. Power to make regulations 32. Amendment 33. Repeal and savings FIRST SCHEDULE SECOND SCHEDULE 

 

7 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 342 PREVENTION AND CONTROL OF INFECTIOUS DISEASES ACT 1988 An Act to amend and consolidate the law relating to the prevention and control of infectious diseases and to provide for other matters connected therewith. [Througout Malaysia―1 April 1989 , P.U. (B) 179/1989] BE IT ENACTED by the Seri Paduka Baginda Yang di -Pertuan Agong with the advice and consent of the Dewan Negara and Dewan Rakyat in Parliament assembled, and by the authority of the same, as follows: PART I PRELIMINARY Short title, application and commencement 1. (1) This Act may be cited as the Prevention and Control of Infectious Diseases Act 1988, and shall apply throughout Malaysia. (2) This Act shall come into force on a date to be appointed by the Minister by notification in the Gazette; and the Minister may appoint different dates for the coming into force of this Act, or of different provisions thereof, in different parts of Malaysia. 

 8 Laws of Malaysia ACT 342 Interpretation 2. (1) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires— “aircraft” includes every description of craft used in aerial navigation; “airport” means any area of land, water or space designed, equipped, set apart or commonly used for affording facilities for the take-off and landing of aircraft and includes the roof of a building which is designed, equipped or set apart for affording facilities for the take -off and landing of aircraft; “article” means any non -living movable thing including food and drugs and also includes fittings and fixtures; “authorized officer” means any Medical Officer of Health, any health inspector, or any officer appointed by the Minister under section 3; “boarding-house” includes— (a) a hotel; (b) a hostel; or (c) any institution of refuge or rest for persons needing care; “commander” means the person for the time being in command of an aircraft or a ship; “contact” means any person who has been or is likely to have been exposed to the risk of contracting an infectious disease, including any person arriving from an infected area; “contamination” means the presence of agents of an infectious disease on the surface of or in non-living things or on the body surface of living things; “derat” means to render free from rodents; 

Prevention and Control of Infectious Diseases 9 “Director General” means the Director General of Health; “disinfect” means to destroy or remove the agents of disease; “disinsecting” means the operation in which measures are taken to kill noxious insects; “epidemic” means an extension of a disease by a multiplication of cases in an area; “food” includes any substa nce consumed by human beings or animals or any substance used in the composition or preparation of any such substance and also includes flavouring matters and condiments, but does not include drugs; “health inspector” means any health inspector in the se rvice of the Government or of any local authority; “immunization” means the introduction of specific antigens or antibodies into the human body with the object of conferring immunity against the disease in question, and includes vaccination; “infection” means the entry of agents of an infectious disease into living things and the multiplication of such agents in living things; “infectious disease” means any disease specified in the First Schedule; “infested” means infested with rodents or noxious insects; “International Health Regulations” means the International Health Regulations as adopted by the World Health Assembly in 1969 and as amended from time to time; “isolation” when applied to a person or a group of persons means the separation of th at person or group of persons from other persons, except the personnel in charge of the care and isolation of such persons, in such a manner as to prevent the spread of infection, and includes the treatment of that person or group of persons; 

 10 Laws of Malaysia ACT 342 “Medical Officer of Health” means any medical practitioner in the service of the Government or any local authority who is for the time being carrying out the duties of a Medical Officer of Health in any area, district, or local authority area, including the airport and port limits thereof, and includes the Director General, the Deputy Director General of Health, the Director of Health Services, any Deputy Director of Health Services, any State Director of Medical and Health Services, any State Deputy Director of Medical and Health Services, the Sabah State Director of Medical Services and his Deputy and the Sarawak State Director of Medical Services and his Deputy; “medical practitioner” means a medical practitioner registered under the Medical Act 1971 [Act 50]; “noxious insect” means any arthropod carrying or causing or capable of carrying or causing any infectious disease, and includes the eggs, larvae and pupae of such arthropod; “observation” means the segregation of any contact or person suspected of suffering from any infectious disease for the purpose of ascertaining whether or not he is suffering from any infectious disease, and includes the treatment of that person; “pathogenic organism or substance” includes— (a) any animal; (b) any noxious insect; (c) any living germ, microbe, bacteria or virus; (d) the culture of any germ, microbe, bacteria or virus; or (e) the product of any germ, microbe, bacteria or virus, capable of causing any infectious disease; “port” means a seaport or an inland navigation port which is normally frequented by ships; 

Prevention and Control of Infectious Diseases 11 “premises” includes any structure, permanent or otherwise, the land on which the structure is situated, and any adjoining land used in connection therewith, and also includes any street, open space or vehicle; “quarantine station” means any place where isolation or observation is carried out and includes an infectious disease hospital and any place declared by the Minister in the Gazette to be a quarantine station; “ship” includes any vessel used in navigation by water; “surveillance” means the subjection of any person, who is not isolated, to periodical examination or enquiry for the purpose of ascertaining his state of health and to conditions imposed by an authorized officer for such purpose; “treatment” includes all such acts and procedures as may be necessary for the purpose of determining whether a person is infected with an infectious disease; “vehicle” includes a ship, an aircraft, a train, a road vehicle and any other means of transport. (2) Any reference to “airport” or “port” includes a reference to any structure, permanent or otherwise, within the limits thereof. PART II ADMINISTRATION Appointment of authorized officers 3. (1) The Minister may appoint any suitable person to be an authorized officer for the purposes of this Act. (2) An authorized officer shall, when acting within the scope of his powers and duties under this Act, be deemed to be a public servant within the meaning of the Penal Code [Act 574]. 

 12 Laws of Malaysia ACT 342 (3) An authorized officer shall maintain the confidentiality of all matters which come to his knowledge in the performance of his official duties under this Act and shall not communicate any such matter to any person except for the purpose of carrying into effect the provisions of this Act. (4) An authorized officer who contravenes subsection (3) commits an offence and is liable on conviction to imprisonment for a term not exceeding three years or to a fine or to both. Limitation of liability 4. (1) Nothing done by any authorized officer for the purpose of executing this Act and the regulations made thereunder shall subject the authorized officer personally to any action, liability, claim or demand whatsoever. (2) Subsection (1) shall apply to any officer acting under section 5. Police assistance, etc. 5. Police, customs and immigration officers and officers from other government departments and agencies shall render such assistance as any authorized officer may request for the purpose of enabling him to exercise the powers vested in him b y this Act or the regulations made under this Act. PART III PREVENTION OF IMPORTATION OF INFECTIOUS DISEASE Declaration of infected area 6. (1) Whenever notification is received under the International Health Regulations that an infected area exists o utside Malaysia, the Minister may by order in the Gazette declare such area to be an infected area for the purposes of this Act. 

Prevention and Control of Infectious Diseases 13 (2) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (1), the Minister may, by order in the Gazette, declare any other area outsid e Malaysia to be an infected area. (3) The Minister may, by regulations made under this Act, prescribe the measures to be taken to prevent the introduction of any infectious disease into Malaysia from an infected area. Entry into and examination of veh icles and the measures thereafter 7. (1) An authorized officer may— (a) enter into and medically examine any vehicle at any time upon its arrival in Malaysia; (b) medically examine any person, animal or article on board such vehicle; and (c) take such samples as m ay be necessary for the purpose of determining the sanitary condition of such vehicle or article or the state of health of such person or animal. (2) An authorized officer may order any part of any vehicle, which he has reason to believe to be contaminat ed or infested, to be disinfected, disinsected or deratted to that officer’s satisfaction. (3) If in the course of a medical examination under subsection (1) an authorized officer finds or has reason to believe that any person is infected or is a contact, he may order such person— (a) to be removed to a quarantine station and detained therein for isolation or observation; or (b) to be put under surveillance until such time as the disease is no longer communicable to others. 

 14 Laws of Malaysia ACT 342 Time for examination 8. (1) Examinations under section 7 shall be conducted at such reasonable time as may be determined by an authorized officer; and the owner of any vehicle, or his agent or servant, shall make such arrangements as may be required by the authorized officer for the examinations to take place. (2) The owner of any vehicle, or his agent or servant, who contravenes subsection (1) commits an offence. Importation or exportation of human remains and pathogenic organism or substance 9. (1) No person shall knowingly import i nto or export out of Malaysia— (a) any human remains, human tissues or part thereof; or (b) any pathogenic organism or substance or part thereof, except in accordance with regulations made under this Act. (2) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) commits an offence. (3) When any person is charged under this section, he shall be presumed to have knowingly imported or exported such human remains, human tissues or part thereof or such pathogenic organism or substance or part thereof until the contrary is proved. 

Prevention and Control of Infectious Diseases 15 PART IV CONTROL OF THE SPREAD OF INFECTIOUS DISEASE Requirement to notify infectious disease 10. (1) Every adult occupant of any house in which any infectious disease appears, and every person in charge of, or in the company of, and every person not being a medical practitioner attending on, any person suffering from or who has died of an infectious disease shall, upon becoming aware of the existence of such disease, with the least practicable delay notify the officer in charge of the near est district health office or government health facility or police station or notify the nearest village head of the existence of such disease. (2) Every medical practitioner who treats or becomes aware of the existence of any infectious disease in any premises shall, with the least practicable delay, give notice of the existence of the infectious disease to the nearest Medical Officer of Health in the form prescribed by regulations made under this Act. (3) The person in charge of any boarding-house shall, with the least practicable delay, notify the officer in charge of the nearest district health office or government health facility or police station if he knows or has reason to believe that any person in the boarding -house is suffering from or has died of an infectious disease. (4) Any police officer or village head receiving notification under this section shall, with the least practicable delay, notify the officer in charge of the nearest district health office or government health facility. (5) Any person who contravenes this section commits an offence. (6) When any person is charged under this section, he shall be presumed to have known of the existence of the infectious disease or to have had reason to believe that an infectious disease existed, unless he shows to the satisfaction of the Court before which he is charged that he did not know and could not with reasonable diligence have 

 16 Laws of Malaysia ACT 342 obtained knowledge of the infectious disease or that he did not have reason to believe that an infectious disease existed. Declaration of an infected local area 11. (1) If the Minister is satisfied that there is an outbreak of an infectious disease in any area in Malaysia, or that any area is threatened with an epidemic of any infectious disease, he may, by order in the Gazette, declare such area to be an infected local area. (2) The Minister may, by regulations made under this Act, prescribe the measures to be taken to control or prevent the spread of any infectious disease within or from an infected local area. (3) During the continuance in force of an order made under subsection (1), it shall be lawful for any authorized officer to direct any person or class or category of persons living in an infected local area or in any part thereof to subject himself or themselves— (a) to treatment or immunization; (b) to isolation, observation or surveillance, the period of which being specified according to circumstances; or (c) to any other measures as the authorized officer considers necessary to control the disease. (4) It shall be lawful for an authorized officer to use such force, with or without assistance, as may be necessary and to employ such methods as may be sufficient to ensure compliance with any direction issued under subsection (3). (5) Any person who refuses to comply with any direction issued under subsection (3) commits an offence. 

Prevention and Control of Infectious Diseases 17 Infected persons not to act in a manner likely to spread infectious disease 12. (1) No person who knows or has reason to believe that he is suffering from an infectious dise ase shall expose other persons to the risk of infection by his presence or conduct in any public place or any other place used in common by persons other than the members of his own family or household. (2) No person who knows or has reason to believe th at he is suffering from any infectious disease specified in Part II of the First Schedule shall do any act which he knows or has reason to believe is likely to lead to the spread of such infectious disease. (3) Any person who contravenes this section commits an offence. (4) This section shall not apply to any person whose presence or conduct in such place as mentioned in subsection (1) is necessary for the purpose of obtaining medical treatment. Control of contaminated articles and infected animals 13. (1) No person who knows or has reason to believe that any article is contaminated or that any animal is infected or contaminated shall give, lend, sell, transmit, use or expose such article or animal without prior disinfection. (2) Any person who con travenes subsection (1) commits an offence. (3) This section shall not apply to any person who transmits, with proper precautions, any article or animal for the purpose of having it disinfected. Isolation of infected persons and suspects 14. An authorized officer may cause any person who is infected or whom he has reason to believe to be infected to be removed to a 

 18 Laws of Malaysia ACT 342 quarantine station for treatment and may detain the person at the station until he can be discharged without danger to the public. Observation or surveillance of contacts 15. (1) An authorized officer may order any contact to undergo observation in such place and for such period as he may think fit, or to undergo surveillance until he may be discharged without danger to the public. (2) For the purposes of subsection (1), an authorized officer may use such force as may be necessary to ensure compliance with his order. Order for examination of corpse 16. Whenever an authorized officer suspects that a person has died of an infectious disease, he may order the corpse to be conveyed to such place as he may appoint for such examination as he may consider necessary. Disposal of the dead 17. (1) Where— (a) a person has died or is suspected to have died of an infectious disease; and (b) an authorized officer has given directions as to the manner in which the corpse of such person is to be buried or cremated, no person shall bury or cremate such corpse otherwise than in accordance with the directions of the authorized officer. (2) Any person who c ontravenes subsection (1) commits an offence. 

Prevention and Control of Infectious Diseases 19 Disinfection and closure of premises 18. (1) If an authorized officer has reason to believe that there has been a person with an infectious disease on any premises, or that there exist on any premises conditions likely to lead to the outbreak or spread of any infectious disease, he may do any or all of the following: (a) examine or cause to be examined any person found on the premises with a view to ascertaining if the person is suffering or has been suffering from an infectious disease; (b) examine the premises and any article or animal on the premises with a view to ascertaining if they are contaminated or infected, as the case may be; (c) order the premises or any part thereof to be disinfected, disinsected and deratted; (d) order the premises or any part thereof to be closed until the premises have been thoroughly disinfected, disinsected and deratted; (e) order the disinfection of all contaminated articles and infected or contaminated animals on the premises or, if such ar ticle or animal is incapable of being thoroughly disinfected, order its destruction; (f) do any other act to prevent the outbreak or the spread of any infectious disease. (2) An authorized officer may at any time enter any premises for the purpose of exercising the powers conferred upon him by subsection (1). Destruction of structures 19. (1) A Medical Officer of Health may order the destruction of any structure where a case of infectious disease has occurred if the structure is incapable of being thoroughly disinfected. (f) 

 20 Laws of Malaysia ACT 342 (2) The Medical Officer of Health shall report to the Director General every order made under subsection (1). Selling or letting contaminated buildings 20. (1) Where an authorized officer is satisfied that there is or has been a case of infectious disease in any building and that it is necessary so to do, he may issue an order prohibiting any person from selling or letting such building or any part thereof without the certificate in writing of an authorized officer certifying that such building, or part thereof, and articles therein— (a) have been disinfected to the authorized officer’s satisfaction; or (b) need not be disinfected, as the case may be. (2) Any person who contravenes any order issued under subsection (1) commits an offence. (3) For the purpose of this section, “letting” includes the admission of any person into a boarding house as a paying lodger. Power to order disinfection of certain vehicles 21. Where an authorized officer is satisfied that any vehicle has been used to convey any person suffering from an infectious disease, the authorized officer may cause such vehicle to be disinfected. 

Prevention and Control of Infectious Diseases 21 PART V OFFENCES AND PENALTIES Offences generally 22. Any person who— (a) obstructs or impedes, or assists in obstructing or impeding, any authorized officer in the execution of his duty; (b) disobeys any lawful order issued by any authorized officer; (c) refuses to furnish any information required for the purposes of this Act or any regulations made under this Act; or (d) upon being required to furnish any information under this Act or any regulations made under this Act, gives false information, commits an offence. Prosecution 23. Any authorized officer may appear in court and conduct any prosecution with respect to any offence against this Act or any regulations made under this Act. General penalty 24. Any person guilty of an offence under this Act for which no specific penalty is provided shall be liable on conviction— (a) in respect of a first offence, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding two years or to fine or to both; (b) in respect of a second or subsequent offence, to imprisonment not exceeding five years or to fine or to both; 

 22 Laws of Malaysia ACT 342 (c) in respect of a continuing offence, to a further fine not exceeding two hundred ringgit for every day during which such offence continues. Compounding of offences 25. The Director General or any public officer authorized for this purpose by him in writing may compound any offence under this Act or any regulations made under this Act which has be en prescribed by regulations as compoundable by collecting from the offender a sum of money not exceeding one thousand ringgit. PART VI MISCELLANEOUS Requisition of premises 26. (1) Whenever it appears to the Director General necessary for the carrying out of any of the provisions of this Act and the regulations made under this Act, he may in writing authorize any authorized officer to requisition temporarily any premises for such period as in the opinion of the Director General is necessary. (2) Where any premises are requisitioned under subsection (1), the premises shall be cleansed and disinfected before being returned to the owner. (3) Where any premises are requisitioned under subsection (1), the owner thereof shall be paid such compensation as may be agreed between him and the Director General or, in default of agreement, be determined by arbitration in accordance with the provisions of the Arbitration Act 1952 [Act 93]. NOTE—The Arbitration Act 1952 [ Act 93 ] has since been repealed by the Arbitration Act 2005 [Act 646] w.e.f. 15 March 2006—see section 51 of Act 646. 

Prevention and Control of Infectious Diseases 23 Seizure and disposal of contaminated articles, etc. 27. (1) Without p rejudice to any other power conferred under this Act, an authorized officer may seize any article which is or is likely to have been contaminated, or which contains or appears to contain any pathogenic organism or substance, and may seize any animal which is or is likely to have been infected or contaminated. (2) Where any article or animal seized under subsection (1) is incapable of being thoroughly disinfected and the owner or the person in whose possession the article or animal was at the time of the seizure consents in writing to the destruction of the article or animal, the article or animal may be destroyed or otherwise disposed of as the authorized officer may direct. (3) Where any article or animal seized under subsection (1) is incapable of being thoroughly disinfected and the owner or person in whose possession the article or animal was at the time of the seizure does not consent to the destruction of the article or animal, the authorized officer shall apply to a Magistrate for an order for the disposal of the article or animal and the Magistrate may make such order as he may deem fit, including an order for the destruction of such article or animal, notwithstanding that no one has been charged with or convicted of any offence in connection with the article or animal. Recovery of costs and expenses 28. (1) The Government may recover from the owner of any vehicle, or his agent or servant, any cost and expenses charged or incurred by the Government under this Act or the regulations made under this Act for all or any of the following: (a) the removal, medical attendance and maintenance of any person who is or is suspected to be suffering from an infectious disease and who is removed to any hospital or place from such vehicle for medical treatment or f or isolation or observation; 

 24 Laws of Malaysia ACT 342 (b) the burial or cremation of any person who dies of an infectious disease on such vehicle, or who dies of an infectious disease after removal to hospital from such vehicle; (c) the cleansing, disinsecting, disinfection and derattin g of such vehicle or of any part thereof; (d) the disposal of contaminated articles or infected or contaminated animals on such vehicle. (2) Any cost or expenses charged or incurred by the Government under this Act or any regulations made under this Act may , without prejudice to any other remedy, be recovered by civil proceedings as a debt due to the Government. Exemption 29. (1) The Minister may, by order published in the Gazette, exempt— (a) any person or class of persons; (b) any article; (c) any vehicle; (d) any human remains, human tissues or part thereof; (e) any animal; or (f) any pathogenic organism or substance, from the operation of any of the provisions of this Act or any regulations made under this Act. (2) The Minister may, in making the order under subsecti on (1), impose such conditions as he thinks fit. 

Prevention and Control of Infectious Diseases 25 Power to vary Schedule 30. The Minister may, from time to time, by order in the Gazette delete any provision from or add to, alter or amend the provisions of the First Schedule. Power to make regulations 31. (1) The Minister may make regulations, in respect of the whole or any part of Malaysia, including airports, ports, coastal waters and land frontiers thereof, for carrying the provisions of this Act into effect. (2) Without prejudice to the generality of the powers conferred by subsection (1), regulations under this section may provide for all or any of the following matters: (a) the establishment and maintenance of facilities on land or sea or at the common frontier of contiguous territories for health measures to be applied to local and international traffic; (b) regulating the entry and movement of any vehicle and prescribing the measures to which the vehicle shall be subject, to prevent the outbreak of infectious diseases; (c) regulating— (i) the entry of pe rsons into, their movements within, and their departure from, Malaysia; (ii) the importation and exportation of articles; (iii) the importation and exportation of human remains, human tissues or part thereof; (iv) the importation and exportation of pathogenic organisms and substances; 

 26 Laws of Malaysia ACT 342 (d) regulating the sanitary standards required for ships and aircraft registered in Malaysia; (e) regulating the sanitary standards required for ships and aircraft coming into Malaysia; (f) the duties to be performed by commanders and other persons who are or have been on board any vehicle, or who are desirous of boarding the vehicle, to prevent the spread of infectious diseases; (g) regulating the sanitary standards required for ports, airports and their surroundings and the health standards of persons employed thereat; (h) regulating quarantine procedures and the management of quarantine stations; (i) the detention, isolation and observation in a quarantine station of persons suffering from or suspected to be suffering from an infectious disease; (j) regulating the cleansing and disinfection of premises— (i) where there has been a case or suspected case of infectious disease; or (ii) which are suspected of being contaminated with the agents of infectious disease; (k) regulating the removal and disinfection or destruction of articles which have been or are suspected to have been contaminated with the agents of infectious disease; (l) the prevention and control of the spread of infection by insects, rodents or other animals; (m) prescribing sanitary standards and sanitary faciliti es for premises; 

Prevention and Control of Infectious Diseases 27 (n) the inspection of premises and articles therein; (o) the collection and transmission of epidemiological and health information and the compulsory reporting of infectious diseases; (p) prescribing the fees to be paid under this Act and the regulations made under this Act; (q) the payment to the Government of any costs and expenses charged or incurred for the medical attendance and maintenance of persons removed to hospitals or quarantine stations; (r) prescribing offences which may be compounded and th e procedure for compounding; (s) prescribing the forms to be used under this Act and the regulations made under this Act; (t) such other matters as may appear to the Minister advisable for the prevention or mitigation of infectious diseases. Amendment 32. The Lepers Enactment of the Federated Malay States [F.M.S. Cap. 180] is amended by repealing sections 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 10, subparagraph 11(iv), section 12, subparagraph 13(ii), sections 14, 15, 17, 19, 21 and 24 and the Schedule to the Enactment. Repeals and savings 33. (1) The written laws set out in the Second Schedule are repealed. (2) This repeal shall not affect anything duly done or suffered or any right, privilege, obligation or liability acquired, accrued or incurred under those written laws; and in particular (without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing) any agreement, appointment, 

 28 Laws of Malaysia ACT 342 approval, designation, notice or recognition made or given under those laws shall continue in force and have effect as if it had been made or given under this Act. ________________________________ FIRST SCHEDULE [Section 2] INFECTIOUS DISEASES PART I 1. Avian influenza 2. Chancroid 3. Cholera 3A. Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) 4. Dengue fever and dengue haemorrhagic fever 5. Diphtheria 6. Dysenteries (All forms) 7. Ebola 8. Food poisoning 9. Gonococcal infections (All forms) 10. Hand, foot and mouth disease (HFMD) 11. Leprosy 12. Leptospirosis 13. Malaria 14. Measles 15. Middle East Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus (MERS-CoV) 16. Plague 17. Poliomyelitis (Acute) 18. Rabies 19. Relapsing fever 

Prevention and Control of Infectious Diseases 29 20. Syphilis (All forms) 21. Tetanus (All forms) 22. Tuberculosis (All forms) 23. Typhoid and paratyphoid 24. Typhus and other rickettsioses 25. Viral encephalitis 26. Viral hepatitis 27. Whooping cough 28. Yellow fever 29. Zika virus infection 30. Any other life threatening microbial infection PART II Human Immunodeficiency Virus Infection (All forms) _______________ SECOND SCHEDULE [Section 33] REPEALS (1) (2) Number Short title F.M.S. Cap. 185 Quarantine Enactment F.M.S. Cap. 186 Prevention of Disease Enactment F.M.S. Cap. 187 Vaccination Enactment S.S. Ord. 52 of 1939 Quarantine and Prevention of Disease Ordinance 1939 S.S. Cap. 194 Lepers Ordinance F.M. Ord. 56 of 1950 Quarantine and Prevention of Disease Enactments (Application to Kedah) Ordinance 1950 

 30 Laws of Malaysia ACT 342 Johore En. No. 9 Vaccination Enactment Johore En. No. 122 Quarantine and Prevention of Disease Enactment Kedah En. No. 124 Enactment No. 124 (Vaccination) Kelantan En. 10 of Lepers Enactment 1935 Kelantan En. 5 of 1939 Prevention of Disease Enactment Perlis En. 4 of 1346 Quarantine and Prevention of Diseases Enactment (A.H.) 1346 Perlis En. 1 of 1345 Padang Besar Quarantine Enactment 1345 (A.H.) Terengganu En. 6 of Quarantine and Prevention of Diseases Enactment 1356 (Revised Cap. 84) (A.H.) Act 52 Malaria Eradication Act 1971. ________________________________

31 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 342 PREVENTION AND CONTROL OF INFECTIOUS DISEASES ACT 1988 LIST OF AMENDMENTS Amending law Short title In force from P.U. (A) 181/1995 Prevention and Control 261995 of Infectious Diseases (Amendment of First Schedule) Order 1995 P.U. (A) 243/1997 Prevention and Control 151997 of Infectious Diseases (Amendment of First Schedule) Order 1997 P.U. (A) 374/2006 Prevention and Control 122006 of Infectious Diseases (Amendment of First Schedule) Order 2006 P.U. (A) 408/2010 Prevention and Control 102010 of Infectious Diseases (Amendment of First Schedule) Order 1997 P.U. (A) 298/2016 Prevention and Control 012016 of Infectious Diseases (Amendment of First Schedule) Order 2016 P.U. (A) 179/2020 Prevention and Control 102020 of Infectious Diseases (Amendment of First Schedule) Order 2020 _________________ 

32 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 342 PREVENTION AND CONTROL OF INFECTIOUS DISEASES ACT 1988 LIST OF AMENDMENTS Section Amending authority In force from First Schedule P.U. (A) 181/1995 261995 P.U. (A) 243/1997 151997 P.U. (A) 374/2006 122006 P.U. (A) 408/2010 102010 P.U. (A) 298/2016 012016 P.U. (A) 179/2020 102020 ______________