LAWS OF MALAYSIA ONLINE VERSION OF UPDATED TEXT OF REPRINT Act 301 PRINTING PRESSES AND PUBLICATIONS ACT 1984 As at 1 September 2012 

2 PRINTING PRESSES AND PUBLICATIONS ACT 1984 Date of Royal Assent ... ... ... … … … 27 June 1984 Date of publication in the Gazette … … … 28 June 1984 Latest amendment made by Act A1436 which came into operation on ... ... ... … … … 15 July 2012 PREVIOUS REPRINTS First Reprint ... ... ... … 2001 Second Reprint ... ... ... ... 2006 

3 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 301 PRINTING PRESSES AND PUBLICATIONS ACT 1984 ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS PART I PRELIMINARY Section 1. Short title and commencement 2. Interpretation PART II LICENSING OF PRINTING PRESSES 3. Licence to use printing press 4. Printing press used for unlawful purpose PART III PERMIT TO PUBLISH NEWSPAPER 5. Offence to print, import, publish, etc., newspaper without permit 6. Grant of permit PART IV CONTROL OF UNDESIRABLE PUBLICATIONS 7. Undesirable publications 8. Offences 8A. Offence to publish false news 8B. Suppression of publication 

4 Laws of Malaysia ACT 301 Section 8C. Suspension of publication 9. Undesirable publication may be refused importation 9A. Withholding delivery pending decision of Minister PART V MISCELLANEOUS 10. Deposit 11. Printed document to bear name of printer and publisher 12. Validity of licence and permit 13. Revocation, suspension and transfer of licence and permit 13A. Minister’s decision final 13B. Right to be heard 14. Presumption 15. Presumption of printer and publisher 16. Search warrant 17. Power to open package 18. Power of seizure or detaining printing press or publication 19. All things seized liable to forfeiture 20. Arrest without warrant 21. Corporations and firms 22. Liability of partners, directors, etc. 23. Service of notice, etc. 24. Bar to legal proceedings 25. Exemption 26. Rules 27. Repeal SCHEDULE I SCHEDULE II 

5 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 301 PRINTING PRESSES AND PUBLICATIONS ACT 1984 An Act to regulate the use of printing presses and the printing, importation, production, reproduction, publishing and distribution of publications and for matters connected therewith. [1 September 1984, P.U. (B) 364/1984] BE IT ENACTED by the Seri Paduka Baginda Yang di -Pertuan Agong with the advice and consent of the Dewan Negara and Dewan Rakyat in Parliament assembled, and by the authority of the same, as follows: PART I PRELIMINARY Short title and commencement 1. This Act may be cited as the Printing Presses and Publications Act 1984 and shall come into force on such date as the Minister may, by notification in the Gazette, appoint. Interpretation 2. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires — “audio recording” means any material on which is recorded a recording of a human voice or of instrumental music or other sounds and includes phonograph records, tapes and laser discs; “authorized officer” means any police officer, an officer of Customs, an officer of the Postal Services Department and any other public officer declared by the Minister to be an authorized officer for the purpose of this Act; 

6 Laws of Malaysia ACT 301 “document” means any paper, card or other material or substance on which is printed, typed, written or marked, letters, figures, marks, pictorial or any other visible representation and includes a newspaper, book and pamphlet; “licence” means a licence granted under subsection 3(3); “newspaper” means any publication containing news, intelligence, reports of occurrences or any remarks, observations or comments, in relation to such news, intelligence or occurrences, or to any other matter of public interest, or any magazine, comic or other forms of periodical printed in any language for sale or free distribution at regular or irregular intervals, but does not include any pub lication published by or for the Federal or any State Government or the Government of Singapore; “permit” means a permit granted under paragraph 6(1)(a) or (b); “person” includes a body corporate or unincorporated; “prohibited publication” means any publication which has been prohibited under subsection 7(1) and includes any copy, reproduction, extract or any translation, precis or paraphrase thereof; “proprietor” means as well the sole proprietor of any newspaper as also the persons who, as partner s or otherwise, represent and are responsible for any share or interest in the newspaper as between themselves and the persons in like manner representing or responsible for the other shares or interests therein and no other person; “publication” includes— (a) a document, newspaper, book and periodical; (b) all written or printed matter and everything whether of a nature familiar to written or printed matter or not containing any visible representation; (c) anything which by its form, shape or in any manner is capable of suggesting words or ideas; and (d) an audio recording; 

 Printing Presses and Publications 7 “senior authorized officer” means— (a) any police officer not below the rank of Assistant Superintendent; (b) any officer of Customs not below the rank of Superintendent; (c) any officer of the Postal Services Department not below the rank of Senior Postal Officer; (d) any other public officer declared by the Minister to be a senior authorized officer for the purpose of this Act. PART II LICENSING OF PRINTING PRESSES Licence to use printing press 3. (1) No person shall keep for use or use a printing press unless he has been granted a licence under subsection (3). (2) For the purpose of this section “printing press” means the machine, equipment or article for printing, copying or reproducing any document described in Schedule I. (3) The Minister may grant to any person a licence to keep for use or use a printing press and he may refuse any application for such licence or may at any time revoke or suspend such licence for any period he considers desirable. (4) Any person who keeps for use or uses a printing press without a valid licence granted under subsection (3), or in contravention of any conditions imposed therein, shall be guilty of an offence and shall, on con viction, be liable to imprisonment for a term not exceeding three years or to a fine not exceeding twenty thousand ringgit or to both and the deposit made under section 10 shall be liable to be forfeited. (5) A printing press which is kept for use or use d in respect of which no licence has been granted shall be ordered to be forfeited by 

8 Laws of Malaysia ACT 301 the court notwithstanding that no person is convicted of any offence and where there is no prosecution it shall be disposed of in accordance with section 19. (6) For the purpose of this section the owner, occupier and any person having the care or management or assisting in the management of any premises in which such printing press is found shall be deemed to have kept the same for use until he proves the contrary. (7) The Minister may by order published in the Gazette amend Schedule I. (8) Nothing in this section shall extend to the impression of any engraving or to the printing of any visiting or business card, billhead or letter heading, or to any letter, memora ndum or document whatsoever, typed, printed or reproduced in the ordinary course of business, not being a printing or publishing business, or for any other lawful object or purpose. Printing press used for unlawful purpose 4. (1) Any person who prints or produces, or causes or permits to be printed or produced by his printing press or machine any publication or document— (a) which is obscene or otherwise against public decency; or (b) which contains an incitement to violence against persons or property, counsels disobedience to the law or to any lawful order or which is or is likely to lead to a breach of the peace or to promote feelings of ill -will, hostility, enmity, hatred, disharmony or disunity, shall be guilty of an offence and shall on conviction be liable to imprisonment for a term not exceeding three years or to a fine not exceeding twenty thousand ringgit or to both. (2) Notwithstanding any law to the contrary any printing press or machine which is used to print any publication o r document which is the subject matter of an offence under subsection (1) or any provision 

 Printing Presses and Publications 9 of any of the written laws specified in Schedule II shall be ordered to be forfeited by the court notwithstanding that no person is convicted of any offence. PART III PERMIT TO PUBLISH NEWSPAPER Offence to print, import, publish, etc., newspaper without permit 5. (1) No person shall print, import, publish, sell, circulate or distribute, or offer to publish, sell, circulate or distribute, any newspaper printed in Malaysia or Singapore unless there has been granted by the Minister in respect of such newspaper a permit under paragraph 6(1)(a) or (b). (2) Any person who— (a) prints any newspaper in respect of which a permit has not been granted or in respect of which a permit has been revoked or suspended; or (b) imports, publishes, sells, circulates or distributes, or offers to publish, sell, circulate or distribute, or has in his possession for any such purpose, any newspaper printed in Malaysia or Singapore in respect of which no permit has been granted or in respect of which a permit has been revoked or suspended, shall be guilty of an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to imprisonment for a term not exceeding three years or to a fine not exceeding twenty thousand ringgit or to both. Grant of permit 6. (1) The Minister may grant— (a) to any person a permit to print and publish a newspaper in Malaysia; or 

10 Laws of Malaysia ACT 301 (b) to any proprietor of any newspaper in Singapore a permit allowing such newspaper to be imported, sold, circulated or distributed in Malaysia. (2) The Minister may at any time revoke or suspend a permit for any period he considers desirable. (3) The Minister may impose as a condition of the grant of a permit that the proprietor of the newspaper in Singapore shall establish and maintain a place of business within Malaysia or shall appoint persons within Malaysia authorized to accept service of any notice or legal process on behalf of the proprietor and shall furnish the Minister with, and cause to be published in such manner as the Minister may direct, a list containing the names and addresses of such persons. PART IV CONTROL OF UNDESIRABLE PUBLICATIONS Undesirable publications 7. (1) If the Minister is satisfied that any publication contains any article, caricature, photograph, report, notes, writing, sound, music, statement or any other thing which is in any manner prejudicial to or likely to be prejudicial to public order, morality, security, or which is likely to alarm public opinion, or which is or is likely to be contrary to any law or is otherwise prejudicial to or is likely to be prejudicial to public interest or national interest, he may in his absolute discretion by order publi shed in the Gazette prohibit, either absolutely or subject to such conditions as may be prescribed, the printing, importation, production, reproduction, publishing, sale, issue, circulation, distribution or possession of that publication and future publications of the publisher concerned. (2) In the case of a publication originating in any country outside Malaysia, an order under subsection (1) may, if the order so provides— (a) prohibit the importation of any or all publications whether before or after the date of the order, subject to such conditions as may be prescribed therein; 

 Printing Presses and Publications 11 (b) in the case of a periodical publication, prohibit the importation of any past or future issue thereof; (c) in the case of a publication which has been issued or appears or purports to have been issued from any publishing house, agency or other source specified in the order, prohibit the importation of any other publication which may at any time whether before or after the date of the order has been, or appears or purports to have been, issued from the specified publishing house, agency or other source; (d) require the publisher thereof to make such deposits of such amount and in such manner as may be prescribed therein before any such publication may be imported. (3) Where the Minister is satisfied that the publisher of any publication has acted in contravention of the Act or any rules or order made thereunder or any condition of the licence or permit or any law relating to sedition or defamation, he may after giving such publisher an opportunity to show cause why the deposit made under paragraph 2(d) should not be forfeited, order the deposit or part thereof to be forfeited. (4) Whether or not an order has been made under subsection (3) the court may order the deposit or any balance thereof, if any— (a) to be forfeited where the publisher fails to appear in court to answer any criminal charge or civil action relating to any matter in connection with such publication; or (b) to be paid out in settlement of any judgment obtained against the publisher arising out of any proceeding in connection with such publication. (5) Where a deposit made under paragraph 2 (d) is ordered to be forfeited or utilized in settlement of any damages under subsection (3) or (4), the order of prohibition under subsection (1) shall become absolute unless the publisher makes a further deposit as may be required by the Minister. 

12 Laws of Malaysia ACT 301 (6) A local or foreign publisher shall be responsible and liable for any action in respect of any material published in his publication. Offences 8. (1) Any person who without lawful excuse is found in possession of any prohibited publication shall be guilty of an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding five thousand ringgit. (2) Any person who prints, imports, produces, reproduces, publishes, sells, issues, circulates, offers for sale, distributes or has in his possession for such purpose any prohibited publication shall be guilty of an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to imprisonment for a term not exceeding three years or to a fine not exceeding twenty thousand ringgit or to both. Offence to publish false news 8A. (1) Where in any publication there is maliciously publish ed any false news, the printer, publisher, editor and the writer thereof shall be guilty of an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to imprisonment for a term not exceeding three years or to a fine not exceeding twenty thousand ringgit or to both. (2) For the purposes of this section, malice shall be presumed in default of evidence showing that, prior to publication, the accused took reasonable measures to verify the truth of the news. (3) No prosecution for an offence under this section shall be initiated without the consent in writing of the Public Prosecutor. Suppression of publication 8B. Where any person has been found guilty of any offence by any court in respect of anything published in any publication, it shall be lawful for the court upon the application of the Public Prosecutor to order the suppression of the publication for a period not exceeding six months of such publication. 

 Printing Presses and Publications 13 Suspension of publication 8C. (1) Pending the determination of any proceedings for the prosecution of a pr inter, publisher, editor or writer before any court for any offence in respect of anything published in any publication, it shall be lawful for the court upon the application of the Public Prosecutor to order the suspension of such publication. (2) Where an appeal has been lodged against the order of acquittal of any person charged with an offence in respect of anything published in any publication, it shall be lawful for the court which will hear the appeal, on application by the Public Prosecutor, to order a further suspension of such publication pending the final disposal of the appeal. (3) Any person who contravenes an order made under this section shall be guilty of an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to imprisonment for a term not exce eding two years or to a fine not exceeding ten thousand ringgit or to both. Undesirable publication may be refused importation 9. (1) Without prejudice to anything in this Act, the Minister may refuse the importation into Malaysia or withhold delivery or return to the sender thereof outside Malaysia any publication which he is satisfied contains any article, caricature, photograph, report, notes, writing, sound, music, statement or any other thing which is likely to be prejudicial to public order, moral ity, security, or which is likely to alarm public opinion, or which is likely to be contrary to any law or is otherwise prejudicial or is likely to be prejudicial to public interest or national interest. (2) Notwithstanding subsection (1), the Minister may allow the importation or delivery of any publication after any part of the publication which he considers objectionable under any of the grounds specified in subsection (1) has been, to his satisfaction, obliterated, deleted, erased or removed. (3) (Deleted by Act A684). 

14 Laws of Malaysia ACT 301 Withholding delivery pending decision of Minister 9A. Where a senior authorized officer reasonably suspects that a publication contains any article, caricature, photograph, report, notes, writing, sound, music, statement or any other thing which is likely to be prejudicial to public order, morality, security, or which is likely to alarm public opinion, or which is likely to be contrary to any law or is otherwise prejudicial or is likely to be prejudicial to public interest or nat ional interest, he may withhold delivery of such publication pending the decision of the Minister to deal with it as provided for under section 9. PART V MISCELLANEOUS Deposit 10. A person granted a licence or permit under this Act may be required by the Minister, prior to the issue of such licence or permit to deposit with the Government an amount as may be specially or generally prescribed by rules and the amount or any part thereof may be forfeited by the court upon the commission of any offence under this Act or any rule made thereunder or in the event of breach of any condition of the licence. Printed document to bear name of printer and publisher 11. (1) Every publication printed or published within Malaysia shall have printed legibly in Bahasa Malaysia or the English language on its first or last leaf the name and address of its printer and publisher. (2) No person shall publish, reproduce, sell, circulate or distribute, or offer to publish, reproduce, sell, circulate or distribut e, any publication which does not have the name and address of the printer and publisher, or in the case of an audio recording, the name and address of the producer, conspicuously printed on the cover or container and any person who acts in contravention of this section shall be guilty of an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to imprisonment for a term not exceeding one year or to a fine not exceeding five thousand ringgit or to both. 

 Printing Presses and Publications 15 (3) In the case of a publication imported into Malaysia it shall be sufficient compliance with this section that the name of the printer, publisher or producer be conspicuously printed in any part of the publication or container. Validity of licence and permit 12. A licence or permit granted under this Act shall be subject to such conditions as may be endorsed in the licence or permit and shall remain valid for so long as it is not revoked. Revocation, suspension, and transfer of licence and permit 13. (1) Without prejudice to the powers of the Minister to revoke or suspend a licence or permit under any other provisions of this Act, if the Minister is satisfied that any printing press in respect of which the licence has been issued is used for printing of an y publication which is prejudicial to public order or national security or that any newspaper in respect of which a permit has been issued contains anything which is prejudicial to public order or national security, he may revoke such licence or permit. (2) Subject to subsection (3), no licence or permit shall in any manner be transferred, assigned or otherwise placed under the control of any person other than the person to whom the licence or permit was originally granted unless the Minister so permits a nd any holder who contravenes this subsection shall be liable to have his licence or permit revoked or suspended. (3) The Minister may, in the event of the death, incapacity, bankruptcy or, in the case of a company, liquidation of the holder of such licence or permit, or where a receiver or manager is appointed in relation to the business of the holder of such licence, or where for any reason the Minister is satisfied that it would be unjust not to do so, authorize the transfer of such licence or permit. Minister’s decision final 13A. (1) Any decision of the Minister to refuse to grant or to revoke or to suspend a licence or permit shall be final. 

16 Laws of Malaysia ACT 301 (2) For the purpose of this section “decision” includes any order or direction made by the Minister under this Act. Right to be heard 13B. A person who has been granted a licence or permit under this Act shall be given an opportunity to be heard before a decision to revoke or suspend such licence or permit is made under subsection 3(3), 6(2) or 13(1), as the case may be. Presumption 14. For the purpose of any proceedings under this Act any person who is found in possession, custody or control of— (a) any newspaper contrary to subsection 5(1) or (2); or (b) two or more copies of any particular issue, edition or print of any publication, shall be presumed, until the contrary is proved, to have in his possession such newspaper or publication for the purpo se of selling, circulating or distributing. Presumption of printer and publisher 15. The printer, publisher or producer whose name or address is printed on such publication or the container thereof shall be presumed, until the contrary is proved, to have printed, published or produced such publication at the place stated therein. Search warrant 16. (1) A Magistrate may issue a search warrant empowering a senior authorized officer to enter and search any premises where there is reasonably suspected to be found— 

 Printing Presses and Publications 17 (a) a printing press kept or used in contravention of section 3; (b) any newspaper printed or imported or published in contravention of section 5; or (c) any prohibited publication. (2) Whenever it appears to any senior authorized officer that there is reasonable ground to believe that there is concealed or deposited in any premises any prohibited publication, and that by reason of the delay in obtaining a search warrant the object of the search is likely to be frustrated, he may enter and search the premises as if he were empowered to do so by a warrant issued under subsection (1). Power to open package 17. Any authorized officer may detain, open and examine any package or article which he suspects to contain any prohibited publication or any publi cation liable to be prohibited under subsection 7(1). Power of seizure or detaining printing press or publication 18. Any officer acting pursuant to section 16 or 17 is empowered to seize and detain— (a) any printing press or publication or any other article which he has reason to believe to be evidence of the commission of any offence under this Act or any rules made thereunder; (b) any publication which he suspects to be a publication which is liable to be prohibited under subsection 7(1) or is liable t o be refused importation, withheld from delivery or returned to sender under subsection 9(1). 

18 Laws of Malaysia ACT 301 All things seized liable to forfeiture 19. (1) All publications and other articles, other than a printing press which shall be forfeited under section 3, seized and detained under section 17 or 18, whether or not any person is charged or convicted, may be dealt with in such manner as the court may direct. (2) If there be no prosecution with regard to any printing press, publication or other article seized under this Act, such printing press, publication or other article shall be taken and deemed to be forfeited at the expiration of one calendar month from the date of the service of a written notice of the seizure unless a claim thereto is made before that date in the manner hereinafter set forth. (3) Any person asserting that he is the owner of such printing press, publication or other article and that they are not liable to forfeiture may personally or by his agent authorized in writing give written notice to the senior authorized officer that he claims the same. (4) On receipt of such notice the senior authorized officer shall refer the claim to the Minister who may direct that such printing press, publication or other article be released to the cl aimant or otherwise disposed of or may direct such senior authorized officer to refer the matter to the court for its decision. Arrest without warrant 20. Any police officer may arrest without warrant any person found committing or reasonably suspected of committing or of having committed or of attempting to commit or of procuring or abetting any person to commit any offence under this Act. Corporations and firms 21. For any of the purposes of this Act a corporation may act by a director or its secretary, and a firm may act by any of its partners. 

 Printing Presses and Publications 19 Liability of partners, directors, etc. 22. (1) Whenever an offence under this Act is committed by a body corporate any director, manager, secretary or other officer of the body corporate shall also be deemed to be guilty of that offence unless he shall prove that the offence was committed without his knowledge or consent and was not attributable to any neglect on his part. (2) Whenever any agent or servant in the course of his employment does or omits to do any act the doing of which or the omission to do such act by his principal or employer would be an offence, the agent or servant shall be guilty of that offence. (3) Any person who would have been guilty of an offence if anything had been done or omitted by him personally shall be guilty of that offence and liable to the same penalty if the thing had been done or omitted to be done by his partner, agent or servant in the course of the partnership business or in the course of his employment, as the case may be, unless he proves to the satisfaction of the court that the offence was committed without his knowledge or consent and that he took all reasonable precautions to prevent the doing or omission to do the thing. (4) The provisions of this secti on shall be in addition to and not in derogation from any other provisions of this Act. Service of notice, etc. 23. Any notice, document or other correspondence shall be deemed to be sufficiently communicated to the holder of a licence, permit or certificate if such notice, document or correspondence— (a) is personally served on the person in charge at the premises where the printing press is located, where the publication is published, or upon the agent appointed under subsection 6(3); (b) is sent by registered post to the address of the holder given in the licence or permit or the agent appointed under subsection 6(3); or 

20 Laws of Malaysia ACT 301 (c) is published in the Gazette. Bar to legal proceedings 24. No legal proceedings whatsoever shall lie or be instituted or maintained in any court for or on account of any loss of, or damage to, anything seized, detained, confiscated or destroyed under this Act or for or on account of any damage sustained as a result of the seizure, detention, confiscation, destruction or return of anything under this Act or of any delay in the delivery or return of anything to the person to whom such thing would have been delivered or returned but for its detention under this Act. Exemption 25. (1) Nothing in this Act shall extend to the publication or making of any document or periodical by or for the Federal or any State Government or any statutory body. (2) The Minister may by order published in the Gazette exempt any person, printing press or publication from the application of all or any of the provisions of this Act. Rules 26. (1) The Minister may from time to time make rules to carry out the purposes of this Act. (2) Without prejudice to the generality of the powers conferred by subsection (1), such rules may provide for— (a) the nature and form of any document necessary for the purposes of this Act; (b) the particulars to be supplied on an application for a licence or permit and the manner of maintaining records; (c) procedure for the transfer of licences and permits; 

 Printing Presses and Publications 21 (d) the procedure for application of, the fees for and the conditions to be attached to, a licence or permit, the payment of a deposit upon the issue of a licence or permit and the circumstances in which the deposit may be forfeited; (e) the amount of deposit required to be made under paragraph 7(2) (d) or section 10 and the manner of forfeiture or for the payment of such deposit as damages; and (f) the procedure for, and hearing of, appeals. Repeal 27. The Printing Presses Act 1948 [ Act 58 ] and the Control of Imported Publications Act 1958 [Act 63] are repealed. SCHEDULE I [Subsection 3(2)] Letterpress, Lithography, Gravure, Intaglio or any other process of printing capable of printing at a rate of 1,000 impressions per hour or more. SCHEDULE II [Subsection 4(2)] Penal Code Section 255 Counterfeiting a Government stamp. Section 292 Sale, etc., of obscene books, etc. Section 298A Causing, etc., disharmony, disunity, or 

22 Laws of Malaysia ACT 301 feelings of enmity, hatred or ill-will, or prejudicing, etc., the maintenance of harmony or unity, on grounds of religion. Section 464 Making a false document. Section 466 Forgery of a record of a Court, or a public Register of Birth, etc. Section 467 Forgery of a valuable security or will. Section 468 Forgery for the purpose of cheating. Section 469 Forgery for the purpose of harming the reputation of any person. Section 489A Forging or counterfeiting currency notes or bank notes. Section 499 Defamation. Section 501 Printing or engraving matter known to be defamatory. Sedition Act 1948 Paragraph 4(1)(c) Printing any seditious publication. Internal Security Act 1960 Section 24 Printing proscribed document. 

23 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 301 PRINTING PRESSES AND PUBLICATIONS ACT 1984 LIST OF AMENDMENTS Amending law Short title In force from Act A684 Printing Presses and Publications (Amendment) Act 1987 081988 Act A1436 Printing Presses and Publications (Amendment) Act 2012 152012 

24 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 301 PRINTING PRESSES AND PUBLICATIONS ACT 1984 LIST OF SECTIONS AMENDED Section Amending authority In force from 3 Act A684 081988 Act A1436 152012 6 Act A1436 152012 7 Act A684 081988 8A Act A684 081988 8B Act A684 081988 8C Act A684 081988 9 Act A684 081988 9A Act A684 081988 12 Act A684 081988 Act A1436 152012 13 Act A684 081988 13A Act A684 081988 Act A1436 152012 13B Act A684 081988 Act A1436 152012