LAWS OF MALAYSIA ONLINE VERSION OF UPDATED TEXT OF REPRINT Act 524 ACADEMY OF SCIENCES MALAYSIA ACT 1994 As at 1 December 2011 

2 ACADEM Y OF SCIENCE S MALAYSI A ACT 1994 Dated of Royal Assent … … … … … 29 August 1994 Date of publication in the Gazette … … … 8 September 1994 PREVIOU S REPRINT S First Reprin t ... ... ... ... ... 2002 Second Reprint … … … … …2006

3 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 524 ACADEM Y OF SCIENCE S MALAYSI A ACT 1994 ARRANGEMEN T OF SECTIONS PART I PRELIMINARY Section 1. Short title 2. Interpretation PART II ACADEM Y OF SCIENCE S MALAYSIA 3. Establishmen t of the Academy 4. Objec t of the Academy 5. Function s of the Academy 6. Counci l of the Academy 7. Function s of the Council 8. Appointmen t of committees PART III MEMBERSHI P OF THE ACADEMY 9. Membershi p of the Academy 

4 Section 10. Fellow s and honorar y Fellows 11. Disqualificatio n from membershi p of Academy 12. Terminatio n of membershi p of a Fellow PART IV FINANCE 13. Establishmen t of the Academ y of Science s Malaysi a Fund 14. Money s to be paid into the Fund 15. Purpose s of the Fund 16. Power to invest 17. Power to borrow PART V GENERAL 18. Common seal 19. Officer s and servant s of the Academ y deeme d to be publi c servants 20. Regulation s with respec t to condition s of service 21. Regulation s with respec t to discipline 22. Regulations SCHEDULE 

5 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 524 ACADEM Y OF SCIENCE S MALAYSIA ACT 1994 An Act to provide for the establishmen t of the Academy of Sciences Malaysi a and for matter s connecte d therewith. [1 Februar y 1995, P.U. (B) 32/199 5] BE IT ENACTE D by the Seri Paduk a Bagind a Yang di-Pertuan Agong with the advice and consen t of the Dewan Negar a and Dewan Rakyat in Parliamen t assembled , and by the authorit y of the same, as follows: PART I PRELIMINARY Short title 1. This Act may be cited as the Academ y of Science s Malaysia Act 1994. Interpretation 2. In this Act, unles s the contex t otherwis e requires — “Academy” means the Academy of Sciences Malaysia established under sectio n 3; “Council ” means the Counci l of the Academ y establishe d under 

6 Laws of Malaysia ACT 524 sectio n 6; “Fellow ” means a Fellow electe d under sectio n 10 and includes a Senio r Fellow; “Fund” means the Academy of Sciences Malaysia Fund established under sectio n 13; “genera l meeting s of the Academy ” means the ordinar y general meetings, annual general meetings and extraordinary general meetings of the Academy; “members” means Fellows and honorary Fellows of the Academy; “Minister ” means the Ministe r for the time being charge d with the responsibilit y for scienc e and technology; “nationa l science , engineerin g and technolog y policy ” means the legislativ e and executive measure s adopte d by the Government to develop , organiz e and utiliz e the nationa l scientific , engineering and technologica l potentia l with the objectiv e of achievin g the nation’ s overal l developmen t aim. PART II ACADEMY OF SCIENCE S MALAYSIA Establishmen t of the Academy 3. Ther e is hereb y establishe d an academ y by the name of “Academ y of Science s Malaysia ” which shall be a body corporate with perpetua l successio n and a commo n seal, and which may sue and be sued in its corporat e name and, subjec t to and for the purpose s of this Act, may enter into contract s and may acquire, purchase , take, hold and enjo y movabl e or immovabl e propert y of every descriptio n and may convey , assign , surrender , yield up, charge , mortgage , demise , reassign , transfe r or otherwis e dispose 

 Academy of Sciences Malaysia 7 of, or deal with any movabl e or immovabl e propert y or any interest therei n veste d in the Academ y upon such terms as it deems fit. Objec t of the Academy 4. The objec t of the Academ y is the pursuit , encouragemen t and maintenanc e of excellenc e in the field s of science , engineering and technolog y in order to promot e the advancemen t of the art and practic e of science , engineerin g and technolog y for the development of the natio n and the benefi t of mankind. Functions of the Academy 5. The functions of the Academy are— (a) to promote and foster the development of science, engineering and technology; (b) to provide a forum for the interchange of ideas among scientists, engineers and technologists; (c) to promote national awareness, understanding and appreciation of the role of science, engineering and technology in human progress; (d) to promote creativity among scientists, engineers and technologists; (e) to promote national self -reliance in the field of science, engineering and technology; (f) to act as a forum for maintaining awareness on the part of the Government of the significance of the role of science, engineering and technology in the development process of the natio n and for bringing national development needs to the attention of the scientists, engineers and technologists; 

8 Laws of Malaysia ACT 524 (g) to analyze particular national problems and identify where science, engineering and technology can contribute to their solution and accordingly to make recommendations to the Government; (h) to keep in touch with developments in science, engineering and technology and identify those developments which are relevant to national needs and to bring such developments to the attention of the Government; (i) to prepare reports, papers or other documents relating to the national science, engineering and technology policy and make the necessary recommendations to the Government; (j) to initiate and sponsor multi -disciplinary studies related to and necessary for the better understanding of the social and economic implications of science, engineering and technology; (k) to encourage research and development and education and training of the appropriate scientific, eng ineering and technical manpower; (l) to establis h and maintai n relation s betwee n the Academy and oversea s bodie s havin g the same or almos t similar objective s in science , engineerin g and technolog y as the Academy; (m) to do such other thing s as may be requeste d by the Governmen t from time to time; and (n) to do such other acts which are consisten t with this Act as may be require d in order to furthe r the advancement of science , engineerin g and technolog y in Malaysi a and the welfar e and status of the Academy. 

 Academy of Sciences Malaysia 9 Counci l of the Academy 6. (1) For the purpose of carrying out the function s of the Academy and managin g the affair s of the Academy , there is establishe d a Counci l comprising — (a) the President; (b) the Vice-President; (c) the Secretary -General; (d) the Treasurer ; and (e) twelv e other members, who shall all be Fellow s of the Academy. (2) The Presiden t shall be appointe d by the Yang di-Pertuan Agon g on th e recommendatio n of th e Minister , whos e recommendation is made after the Minister has consulted the Council, and the Presiden t shall hold office for three years from the date of his appointmen t and shall be eligibl e for reappointmen t provided that he shall not hold office consecutivel y for a perio d exceeding six years. (3) The Vice-President , the Secretary -General , the Treasurer and the twelv e other member s shall be electe d by the Fellow s at the annua l genera l meetin g of the Academ y and shall hold office for two years from the date of electio n and shall be eligibl e for reelectio n to the same post provide d that they shall not hold office consecutivel y for a perio d exceedin g four years. (4) The provision s of the Schedul e shall apply to the Council and the Academy. 

10 Laws of Malaysia ACT 524 Function s of the Council 7. The functions of the Council are— (a) to formulate policy relating to the functions of the Academy; (b) to administer the affairs of the Academy; (c) to appoint such officers or servants of the Academy as are necessary for the due administration of the Academy; (d) to supervise and control its officers and servants; (e) to administer the Fund; and (f) to convene general meetings of the Academy to decide on matters which under this Act are required to be decided by the Academy. Appointment of committees 8. (1) The Council may appoint one or more committees as it considers necessary or expedient to assist it in the performance of its functions under this Act. (2) The number and term of office of the members of a committee appointed under t his section, and the number of the members necessary to form a quorum, shall be decided by the Council. (3) A committee appointed under this section may include persons who are not member s of the Counci l but who shall be members of the Academy . 

 Academy of Sciences Malaysia 11 PART III MEMBERSHI P OF THE ACADEMY Membershi p of the Academy 9. (1) The Academ y shall consis t of the followin g categorie s of members: (a) Fellows ; and (b) honorar y Fellows. (2) Subjec t to subsectio n (3), the member s of the Academ y shall be entitle d to— (a) the use of the facilitie s of the Academ y as may be decided by the Council , from time to time, subjec t to such terms and condition s as may be determine d by the Council ; and (b) such privilege s as may be conferre d upon them by the Council. (3) The Counci l may restric t the use of the facilitie s of the Academ y to any categor y of members. (4) No right or privileg e of a member of the Council or Academy shall be transferable , but any such right or privileg e shall cease upon the member of the Counci l or Academ y ceasin g to be such whethe r by death , retiremen t or otherwise. (5) The firs t Fellow s of the Academ y shall compris e fifty Foundatio n Fellows appointe d by the Ministe r from among eminent Malaysia n citizen s who are regarde d by virtu e of their respective achievement s in the field of science , engineerin g or technolog y as being of exceptiona l merit and distinction. 

12 Laws of Malaysia ACT 524 Fellow s and honorar y Fellows 10. (1) Subjec t to subsectio n 9(5) and subsectio n (3), the Fellows of the Academy shall be electe d from such Malaysia n citizen s who by virtu e of their respectiv e achievement s in the field of science, engineerin g or technolog y are regarde d as being of exceptional merit and distinction. (2) Subject to subsection (3), the honorary Fellows of the Academy shall be electe d from such persons , not being Fellows , who have made or are makin g a distinguishe d contributio n to the practice of science , engineerin g or technolog y which will benefit , or will be able to contribut e to the work of, the Academy. (3) No perso n may becom e a Fello w or honorar y Fello w unless he has been electe d as such by the Academ y in an annua l general meetin g and no candidat e shall be put forwar d for electio n unless his name has been submitted to the Council in the manner determined by the Council. (4) From amongs t the Fellows , there shall be appointed , by the Council , Senio r Fellow s who are person s who have made a contributio n to the nation and their appointmen t shall be based on the recommendat ion of a specia l panel comprisin g member s and non-member s of the Academ y as appointe d by the Minister. (5) A Senio r Fellow appointe d under subsectio n (4) shall be entitle d to be addresse d as an Academicia n and be paid a special allowanc e for life by the Government. Disqualificatio n from membershi p of Academy 11. A Fello w shall cease to be a membe r of the Academ y if he— (a) is convicte d of an offenc e involvin g fraud , dishonest y or moral turpitude; 

 Academy of Sciences Malaysia 13 (b) is of unsound mind or is otherwise incapable of discharging his duties ; or (c) is adjudicate d a bankrupt. Terminatio n of membershi p of a Fellow 12. (1) The Counci l may by resolutio n make a recommendation to the Academ y to terminat e the membershi p of a Fello w if he has been guilty of conduct which, in the opinion of the Council , renders him unfit to be a membe r of the Academ y or will bring it into disrepute. (2) Befor e the recommendatio n under subsectio n (1) is brought to the Academ y for a decisio n the Fello w concerne d shall be given an opportunit y to give an explanatio n in writin g to the Council stating the reasons as to why his membership should not be terminated. (3) Upon consideratio n of the writte n explanatio n given by the Fello w under subsectio n (2) the Counci l shall forwar d its findings and recommendatio n to the Academ y whose decisio n on the matter, made throug h its annual genera l meetin g or extraordinar y general meeting , shall be final. PART IV FINANCE Establishmen t of the Academ y of Science s Malaysi a Fund 13. There is establishe d a fund to be known as the Academ y of Sciences Malaysia Fund which shall be administere d by the Council. 

14 Laws of Malaysia ACT 524 Money s to be paid into the Fund 14. There shall be paid into the Fund— (a) such sums of money as may be appropriate d from time to time by Parliamen t from the Federa l Consolidated Fund; (b) all moneys receive d by the Academ y by way of any donation , grant or bequest; (c) all moneys earne d or arisin g from any investmen t made under sectio n 16 or from any property , mortga ge, charge or debenture; (d) all moneys borrowe d by the Counci l under sectio n 17; and (e) all other moneys and propertie s which may in any manner become payabl e to or be vested in the Academ y in respect of any matte r incidenta l to its functions. Purpo ses of the Fund 15. The Fund shall be used for the followin g purposes: (a) to make disbursement s for salaries , allowances , expenses and other administrativ e costs incurre d for the purposes of this Act; (b) to provide awards, fellowships, scholarships an d research grants; (c) to sponsor research projects undertaken by scientific organizations, institutions of higher learning and individuals; (d) to publis h and purchas e magazines , books and articles relatin g to science , engineerin g or technol ogy; 

 Academy of Sciences Malaysia 15 (e) organizatio n of seminars , exposition s and other similar activitie s relatin g to science , engineerin g or technology; (f) to pay for the rental , or purchas e of a site for and the construction , of any buildin g for the Academy; (g) to pay for the rental or purchase of equipment and materials for the purpose s of the Academy; (h) to repay any money s borrowe d by the Counci l under sectio n 17; and (i) to pay any other expenses properly incurred by the Council in the executio n of its funct ions under this Act. Power to invest 16. The Counci l may, from time to time, inves t such moneys of the Fund as are not immediatel y require d to be expende d under this Act— (a) in any investment s or securitie s authorize d for the investmen t of trust funds by any writte n law for the time being in force ; or (b) in such other investment s or securitie s as the Council think s fit. Power to borrow 17. The Counci l may, with the approva l of the Ministe r and upon such terms and condition s as may be determ ined by him, borrow such sums as it may require for the executio n of any of its functions under this Act. 

16 Laws of Malaysia ACT 524 PART V GENERAL Common seal 18. (1) The Academ y shall have a commo n seal and such seal may from time to time be broken , changed , altere d or made anew as the Counci l may think fit. (2) Until a seal is provide d by the Council , a stamp bearin g the words “Academ y of Science s Malaysia ” may be used and shall be deeme d to be the commo n seal of the Academy. (3) The common seal shall be kept in the custod y of the Presiden t or such other perso n as may be authorize d by the Council. (4) The commo n seal shall not be affixe d to any instrument excep t in the presenc e of the Presiden t and two other member s of the Counci l who shall sign their names to the instrumen t in token of such presence , and the signature s shall be sufficien t evidence that the seal was duly and properl y affixe d and is the lawful seal of the Academy. (5) Any documen t or instrumen t which , if execute d by a person not being a body corporate , would not be require d to be under seal, may in like manne r be execute d by the Counci l and such document or instrumen t may be execute d on behal f of the Counci l by any office r or servan t of the Academ y generall y or speciall y authorized by the Counci l in that behalf. (6) The commo n seal of the Academ y shall be officiall y and judiciall y noticed. Officer s and servant s of the Academ y deemed to be public servants 19. All officer s and servant s of the Academ y shall be deeme d to be publi c servant s within the meanin g of the Penal Code. 

 Academy of Sciences Malaysia 17 Regulation s with respec t to condition s of service 20. The Counci l may, from time to time, with the approva l of the Minister , make regulation s with respec t to the condition s of servic e of the officer s and servants of the Academy. Regulation s with respec t to discipline 21. (1) The Counci l may, from time to time, with the approval of the Minister , make regulation s with respec t to the disciplin e of the officer s and servant s of the Academy. (2) The regulations made under this section may include provisions for— (a) the interdiction with reduction in salary or in other remuneration; or (b) the suspensio n withou t salar y or other remuneration, of an office r or servan t of the Academ y durin g the pendenc y of disciplinar y proceedings. (3) The regulation s made under this sectio n shall create such disciplinar y offences and provide for such disciplinar y punishments as the Counci l may deem appropriate , and the punishment s so provide d may exten d to dismissa l or reductio n in rank. (4) The regulation s made under this sectio n may, in prescribing the procedure for disciplinary proceedings, provide for an opportunity for representation s to be made by the person agains t whom the disciplinar y proceeding s are taken befor e a decisio n is arrive d at by the Counci l on the disciplinar y charg e laid agains t such person. Regulations 22. (1) The Counci l may, with the approva l of the Minister , make such regulation s as may be expedien t or necessar y for the better 

18 Laws of Malaysia ACT 524 carryin g out of the provision s of this Act. (2) Without prejudice to the generality of subsection (1), regulations may be made— (a) to regulate the proceedings of the Academy and the Council; (b) prescribin g generall y for the performanc e of the functions and the exercis e of the power s of the Council; (c) to regulat e the administratio n of the Fund; and (d) to prescrib e anythin g which under this Act may or is require d to be prescribed. SCHEDULE [Subsectio n 6(4)] PROVISION S RELATIN G TO THE COUNCI L AND THE ACADEMY Chairman 1. (1) The Presiden t shall be the chairma n of the Counci l and shall presid e at all meeting s of the Counci l and the Academ y at which he is present. (2) In the absenc e of the President , the Vice-Presiden t shall preside , and in the absenc e of the Presiden t and the Vice-President , the Counci l shall elect one of its member s to preside. First and subsequen t Council 2. (1) Notwithstandin g section 6, the first Council shall comprise the Foundation Fellow s appointe d under subsectio n 9(5) from among whom the Ministe r shall appoint the President , the Vice-President , the Secretary –General , the Treasurer and the twelv e other member s and they shall hold office until the next Council of the Academ y is appointe d or elected , as the case may be, in accordanc e with section 6. 

 Academy of Sciences Malaysia 19 (2) Of the twelv e other member s of the first Council , six member s shall cease to hold office at the end of the first year of their appointmen t and six at the end of the secon d year of their appointment ; the selectio n of those of them who are so to cease to hold office shall be made by agreemen t amongst them and if no such agreemen t can be obtained , and if the Presiden t in his absolute discretio n so decides , by the drawin g of lots at a meetin g of the Council and the vacancie s thus create d shall be fille d by fresh elections. (3) Subject to section 6, members of the Council who retire under subparagraph (2) are eligibl e for electio n if they are not disqualified , on any of the grounds provided in paragrap h 3, from holdin g office. (4) The Counci l shall ensur e that the twelv e other member s of the Council elected shall at all times represen t the variou s field s of activit y of the Academy so as to preserv e as far as possibl e a reasonabl e balanc e among the members of the Counci l and to reflec t the inter -disciplinar y characte r of the Academy. Circumstance s when member s of the Counci l are to vacat e office 3. A membe r of the Counci l shall vacate his offic e if— (a) he cease s to be a Fellow; (b) he become s a paid officia l of the Academy; (c) he resign s his office ; or (d) excep t the President , he is remove d from offic e by a resolutio n passed in an annua l genera l meetin g or extraordinar y genera l meetin g of the Academy. Member s may act irrespectiv e of vacanc y in number 4. The member s of the Counci l may act in the discharg e of their functions or duties in their offic e notwithstandin g any vacanc y existin g in their number. Casua l vacancy 5. Any casua l vacanc y arisin g in the members hip of the Counci l may be filled by any Fello w of the Academ y appointe d by the Presiden t and the Fello w shall hold office only for the unexpire d perio d of his predecessor’ s term of office. 

20 Laws of Malaysia ACT 524 Meeting s of the Council 6. (1) The Counci l shall meet at least four times in each calenda r year at such time and place as it may determine. (2) Eight member s personall y presen t at any meetin g of the Counci l shall constitute the quorum. (3) A decisio n of the majorit y of the member s of the Counci l presen t and voting at any meetin g of the Counci l shall be deemed to be a decisio n of the Council. (4) The chairma n or member presidin g at any meetin g of the Counci l shall have an origina l and a castin g vote. Counci l member s not to be remunerated 7. No remuneratio n is payabl e to any membe r of the Counci l for holding office. Genera l meeting s of the Academy 8. (1) Subjec t to subparagrap h (2), the annua l genera l meetin g of the Academy shall be held in the first four months of each calenda r year, and at such time as may be appointe d by the Council. (2) An extraordinar y genera l meetin g of the Academ y may be convene d at any time by the Counci l and shall be convene d by the Counci l on a requisition by not less than one-fifth of the total number of the Fellow s of the Academy. (3) The ordinar y genera l meeting s of the Academ y shall be held at such place and at such time as may be appointe d by the Counci l to discus s scientific, engineering or technologica l or other matter s of concer n to the member s and shall be open to all Fellows and such other person s as the Counci l may determine. (4) The procedur e for the genera l meeting s of the Academ y and for service of notice s shall be in accordanc e with the regulation s as prescribe d by the Council. Minute s to be kept 9. The Counci l shall cause the minute s of its meeting s to be made in books provided for the purpos e of recordin g all proceedings , resolution s and decisions of 

 Academy of Sciences Malaysia 21 the Counci l and the Academy. Roll of members 10. The Counci l shall maintai n a roll of member s in which shall be inscribed the names of all its members. 

22 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 524 ACADEM Y OF SCIENCE S MALAYSI A ACT 1994 LIST OF AMENDMENTS Amendin g law Short title In force from – NIL – 

23 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 524 ACADE MY OF SCIENCE S MALAYSI A ACT 1994 LIST OF SECTION S AMENDED Sectio n Amendin g authorit y In force from – NIL –