LAWS OF MALAYSIA REPRINT PUBLISHED BY THE COMMISSIONER OF LAW REVISION , MALAYSIA UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF THE REVISION OF LAWS ACT 1968 IN COLLABORATION WITH MALAYAN LAW JOURNAL SDN BHD AND PERCETAKAN NASIONAL MALAYSIA BHD 2006 Act 69 KEMUBU AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY ACT 1972 Incorporating all amendments up to 1 January 2006 069e.fm Friday, March 31, 2006 4:21 PM

PREPARED FOR PUBLICATION BY MALAYAN LAW JOURNAL SDN BHD AND PRINTED BY PERCETAKAN NASIONAL MALAYSIA BERHAD KUALA LUMPUR BRANCH 2006 2 KEMUBU AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY ACT 1972 D a t e o f R o y a l A s s e n t ……………2 3 M a r c h 1 9 7 2 Date of publication in the Gazette… … … 30 March 1972 PREVIOUS REPRINTS F i r s t R e p r i n t ……………1 9 9 3 S e c o n d R e p r i n t …………1 9 9 9 069e.fm Friday, March 31, 2006 4:21 PM

3 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 69 KEMUBU AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS AUTHORITY ACT 1972 PART I PRELIMINARY Section 1. Short title 2. Interpretation PART II THE AUTHORITY 3. The Authority 4. Functions of the Authority 5. Membership of the Authority 6. Public Authorities Protection 7. Public servants 8. Power of Minister to give directions 9. The Kawasan Kemubu 10. Additional functions of the Authority 11. Returns, reports, acco unts and information P ART III CHAIRMAN, DEPUTY CHAIRMAN, OFFICERS AND SERVANTS OF THE AUTHORITY 12. Chairman to be principal managing officer 13. Deputy Chairman to be General Manager 14. Temporary members of the Authority 069e.fm Friday, March 31, 2006 4:21 PM

4 Laws of Malaysia ACT 69 Section 15. Appointment of other officers and servants 15A. Discipline of officers and servants 15B. Establishment of Disciplinary Appeal Board 15C. Termination in the public interest 16. Regulations governing conditions of service of officers and servants PART IV FINANCE 17. Establishment of the Fund 18. Balancing of revenue account 19. Reserve fund 20. Expenses to be charged on the Fund 21. Expenditure and preparation of Estimates 22. Accounts and audit 22 A. Surcharge PART V OTHER POWERS OF THE AUTHORITY 23. Delegation of powers of the Authority 24. Power to borrow 25. Investment 26. Power to employ agents 27. Power to make loans 28. Powers to establish corporation 29. Compulsory acquisition of land P ART VI GENERAL 30. ( Deleted) 31. Obligation of secrecy 32. Power to make regulations 069e.fm Friday, March 31, 2006 4:21 PM

 Kemubu Agricultural Development Authority 5 Section 32A. Power to make disciplinary regulations 33. Things done in anticipation of this Act FIRST SCHEDULE SECOND SCHEDULE 069e.fm Friday, March 31, 2006 4:21 PM

069e.fm Friday, March 31, 2006 4:21 PM

7 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 69 KEMUBU AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY ACT 1972 An Act to incorporate the Kemubu Agricultural Development Authority and to provide for matters connected therewith. [31 March 1972] BE IT ENACTED by the Seri Paduka Baginda Yang di-Pertuan Agong with the advice and consent of the Dewan Negara and Dewan Rakyat in Parliament asse mbled, and by the authority of the same, as follows: PART I PRELIMINARY Short title 1. This Act may be cited as the Kemubu Agricultural Development Authority Act 1972. Interpretation 2. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires— “Authority” means the Kemubu Agricultural Development Authority established under section 3; “Chairman” means the Chairman of the Authority appointed under section 5; “company” has the same meaning as that assigned to “corporation” under subsection 4(1) of the Companies Act 1965 [ Act 125 ]; “corporation ”means a corporat ion established under section 28; 069e.fm Friday, March 31, 2006 4:21 PM

8 Laws of Malaysia ACT 69 “Deputy Chairman” means the Deput y Chairman of the Authority appointed under section 5; “Fund” means the fund established under section 17; “Kawasan Kemubu” means any area as may be determined by the Minister in accordance with section 9; “Minister” means the Minister charged with the responsibility for Agriculture and Agro-based Industry; and “the State” means the State of Kelantan. PART II THE AUTHORITY The Authority 3. A body corporate by the na me “Kemubu Agricultural Development Authority” is established with perpetual succession and a common seal and may sue a nd be sued in its name and, subject to and for the purposes of this Act, may enter into contracts and may acquire, pur chase, take, hold and enjoy movable and immovable property of every description and may convey, assign, surrender, yield up, charge, mortgage, demise, reassign, transfer or otherwise dispose of, or deal with any movable and immovable property or any interest therein vested in the Authority upon such terms as it deems fit. Functions of the Authority 4. (1) The functions of the Authority shall be— (a) to promote, stimulate, fa cilitate and undertake economic and social development in the Kawasan Kemubu; and (b) to plan and undertake within the Kawasan Kemubu such agricultural developm ent as may be assigned to it by the State. (2) The Authority shall have pow er to do all things expedient or reasonably necessary or incidental to the discharge of its functions, and in particular, but without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing— 069e.fm Friday, March 31, 2006 4:21 PM

 Kemubu Agricultural Development Authority 9 (a) to carry on all activitie s the carrying on whereof appears to it to be requisite , advantageous or convenient for or in connection with the discharge of its said functions, including the manufacturing, assembling, processing, packing, grading and marketing of products, research and training; (b) to co-operate with or act as agent or managing agent of or otherwise act in asso ciation with or on behalf of the Government of the Federa tion or of the State, any public authority, any company, any corporation, any body or any person; (c) to promote and co-ordinate the carrying on of such activities by the Government of the Federation or of the State, public authoritie s, any company, corporation, or other body or person; (d) to establish or expand, or promote the establishment or expansion of companie s, corporation or other bodies to carry on any such activities either under the control or partial cont rol of the Authority or independently; (e) to give assistance to an y public authority, company, corporation or other body or person appearing to the Authority to have facilities for the carrying on of any such activities, including financial assistance by the taking up of share or loan capital or by loan or otherwise; (f) to purchase, underwrite or otherwise acquire any stock and shares in any public or private company, and to dispose of the same on such terms and conditions as the Authority may determine; (g) to require departments, and governmental and non- governmental agencies engaged in carrying out or intending to carry out deve lopment in the Kawasan Kemubu to submit report rega rding their activities or proposed activities contai ning such particulars and information as may be specified by the Authority; (h) to appoint agents or establ ish such other bodies as it may deem fit for the purpos es of carrying out its functions; (i) to impose fees or any othe r charges it deems fit for giving effect to any of its powers or functions; 069e.fm Friday, March 31, 2006 4:21 PM

10 Laws of Malaysia ACT 69 (j) to receive, in consideration of the services rendered by it, such commission or payment as may be agreed upon; (k) to regulate development in the Kawasan Kemubu; and (l) to do such other things as it deems fit for the effective carrying out of its functions and powers. Membership of the Authority 5. (1) The Authority shall consis t of the following members: (a) a Chairman; (b) a Deputy Chairman; (c) the Director General of Drai nage and Irrigation or his representative; (d) a representative of the Fede ral Agricultural Marketing Authority established under the Federal Agricultural Marketing Authority Act 1965 [ Act 141 ]; (e) a representative of th e Bank Pertanian Malaysia established under the Bank Pertanian Malaysia Act 1969 [ Act 9 ]; (f) a representative of the Le mbaga Padi dan Beras Negara established under the Lembaga Padi dan Beras Negara Act 1971* [ Act 47 ]; (g) three representatives of the State; and (h) not more than three other members. (2) The Chairman shall be a ppointed by the Yang di-Pertuan Agong and the other memb ers of the Authority shall be appointed by the Minister. (3) The provisions of the Firs t Schedule shall apply to the members of the Authority. *NOTE—The Lembaga Padi dan Beras Negara Act 1971 [ Act 47] is repealed and the Lembaga established under the said Act is dissolved— see section 32 of the Control of Padi and Rice Act 1994 [ Act 522]. 069e.fm Friday, March 31, 2006 4:21 PM

 Kemubu Agricultural De velopment Authority 11 Public Authorities Protection 6. The Public Authorities Protection Act 1948 [ Act 198 ] shall apply to any action, suit, prosecu tion or proceedings against the Authority or against any member, officer, servant or agent of the Authority in respect of any act, neglect or default done or committed by him in such capacity. Public servants 7. All members, officers and serv ants of the Authority, while discharging their duties in such capacity, shall be deemed to be public servants within the meaning of the Penal Code [ Act 574 ]. Power of Minister to give directions 8. (1) The Authority shall be res ponsible to the Minister, and the Minister may, from time to time, give directions not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act and the Authority shall, as soon as possible, give effect to all such directions. (2) Without prejudice to the generality of subsection (1), and subject to consultatio n with the Authority, the power of the Minister to give directions sha ll extend to the giving to it of directions— (a) as to the disposal of capital assets; and (b) as to the application of pr oceeds of such disposals, notwithstanding that the di rections may be of a specific character: Provided that no such direct ion shall, so long as any sum borrowed by the Authority in accordance with the provisions of this Act re mains outstanding, be given except with the concurre nce of the Minister of Finance. The Kawasan Kemubu 9. (1) For the purposes of this Act, the Minister may, after consultation with the Government of the State, from time to time, determine by notification in the Gazette the area within which the 069e.fm Friday, March 31, 2006 4:21 PM

12 Laws of Malaysia ACT 69 Authority shall perform its functi ons under this Act and such area shall be known as the “Kawasan Kemubu”. (2) Notwithstanding any other wr itten law, it shall be the responsibility of the Authority to exercise the functions provided by this Act in the Kawasan Kemubu. Additional functions of the Authority 10. In addition to the duties im posed upon and powers vested in the Authority by this Act, the Au thority may undertake such other functions, exercise such other powers and administer and expend such other moneys for such purpos es as the Government of the Federation or of the State or a ny statutory authority, may assign or give to it and in so doing the Authority sh all be deemed to be fulfilling the purposes of this Act and the provisions of this Act shall apply to the Authority in re spect of such functions and the administration and expending of such moneys: Provided always that the account s of such moneys shall be kept separate and apart from those of the Fund. Returns, reports, accounts and information 11. (1) The Authority shall furnish the Minister and such other person, body of persons or public authority as may be directed by the Minister, such returns, re ports, accounts and information with respect to its property and activitie s as the Minister may from time to time require or direct. (2) Without prejudice to the gene rality of the provisions of subsection (1), the Authority shall, as soon as practicable, after the end of each financial year, cau se to be made and transmitted to the Minister and, if so directed by the Minister, to the Government of the State or a ny other public authority, a report dealing with the activities of the Authority during the preceding financial year and in such form and containing such information relating to the proceedings and policy of the Authority as the Minister may from time to time specify. (3) The Minister shall cause a copy of every such report to be laid before the Dewan Rakyat. 069e.fm Friday, March 31, 2006 4:21 PM

 Kemubu Agricultural De velopment Authority 13 PART III CHAIRMAN, DEPUTY CHAIRMAN, OFFICERS AND SERVANTS OF THE AUTHORITY Chairman to be principal managing officer 12. (1) The Chairman shall be th e principal managing officer of the Authority and shall be res ponsible for the preparation of programmes, schemes or projects for the consideration of the Authority, for the issue of polic y guidance or of elucidation of decisions of the Authority to th e Deputy Chairman and the other officers and servants of the Aut hority and for the supervision and control over the implementation of such decisions. (2) All officers and servants of the Authority shall be under the general control of the Chairman. (3) The Chairman shall perform such other or further duties as the Minister may from ti me to time determine. Deputy Chairman to be General Manager 13. (1) The Deputy Chairman shal l be the General Manager of the Authority and shall be responsible for the execution of all programmes, schemes or projects, for the carrying out of the decisions of the Authority and the direction of the Chairman. (2) The Deputy Chairman shall be responsible to the Chairman. (3) Subject to the directions of the Chairman, the Deputy Chairman shall have administrati ve control of the officers and servants of the Authority. (4) The Deputy Chairman shall perform such other or further duties as the Authority or th e Minister may from time to time determine or as the Chairman may from time to time direct. Temporary members of the Authority 14. If the Chairman or Deputy Chai rman or any other member of the Authority is temporarily absent from Malaysia or temporarily incapacitated through illness or for any other sufficient reason from the performance of his duties, the Yang di-Pertuan Agong or 069e.fm Friday, March 31, 2006 4:21 PM

14 Laws of Malaysia ACT 69 the Minister, as the case may be , may appoint any person to be a temporary Chairman or temporar y Deputy Chairman or temporary member of the Authority. Appointment of other officers and servants 15. (1) Subject to any regulations made under section 16, the Authority may appoint on such terms and conditions as the Authority may think desirable such other officers and servants as may be necessary for the purposes of this Act. (2) No person shall be eligible fo r employment as an officer or servant of the Authority who ha s, directly or indirectly, by himself or his partner, any share or interest in any contract or proposed contract with, for or on behalf of the Authority. (3) Any officer or servant of the Authority who has or acquires any such share or interest shall be liable at the discretion of the Authority to summar y dismissal without notice. Discipline of officers and servants 15A. (1) There shall be a Disciplinary Committee of the Authority which shall consist of two member s to be elected by and from the members of the Authority, one of whom shall be el ected chairman, and the Deputy Chairman appoi nted under subsection 5(1). (2) The disciplinary authority in respect of every officer and servant of the Authority other than the Deputy Chairman shall be the Disciplinary Com mittee of the Authority established under subsection (1). (3) The disciplinary authorit y in respect of the Deputy Chairman shall be the Disciplinary Committee which shall consist of the Secretary General of the Ministry of Agriculture and Agro-based Industry as ch airman and two members to be elected by and from the me mbers of the Authority. (4) The Deputy Chairman shal l not be a member of the Disciplinary Committee in any proceedings before it in which he is the complainant; his place shall be taken by a member to be elected by and from the me mbers of the Authority. 069e.fm Friday, March 31, 2006 4:21 PM

 Kemubu Agricultural De velopment Authority 15 (5) In the exercise of its disciplinary functions, the Disciplinary Committ ee shall have the power to impose such disciplinary punishment as may be provided for under any regulations that may be made under section 32 A. (6) The Disciplinary Committe e may, subject to subsection (7), delegate any of its discipli nary functions, powers or duties to any committee of officers or serv ants of the Authority, in respect of any particular office r or servant of the Au thority or in respect of any class or categor y of officers or serv ants of the Authority, and the committee delegated with such functions, powers or duties shall carry out , exercise or discharge them under the direction and control of the Disc iplinary Committee which shall have the power to review, rescin d or vary any decision or finding of such committee. (7) No delegation shall be made under subsection (6) so as to enable an officer or servant of th e Authority to be a member of a committee which may exercise a ny disciplinary authority over an officer or servant who is superior to him in rank. (8) A decision of the Disciplina ry Committee established under subsection (1) shall be appealab le to the Disciplinary Appeal Board established under section 15 B. (9) A decision of the Disciplina ry Committee established under subsection (3) shall be appealable to the Minister. (10) The Disciplinary Appeal Bo ard or the Minister, as the case may be, may confirm, revers e or vary the decision of the Disciplinary Committee. (11) A decision of the Discipli nary Appeal Board or the Minister under subsection (10) sh all be final and conclusive. Establishment of Discip linary Appeal Board 15B. (1) There shall be a Discipli nary Appeal Board of the Authority which shall consist of the following members: (a) the Chairman, who shall be the chairman of the Disciplinary Appeal Boar d and shall have a casting vote; and (b) three members of the Aut hority, not being members of the Disciplinary Committee whose decision is the 069e.fm Friday, March 31, 2006 4:21 PM

16 Laws of Malaysia ACT 69 subject matter of the app eal, to be appointed by the chairman of the Disciplinary Appeal Board with the approval of the Authority for the purpose of the appeal. (2) When the Disciplinary Appeal Board considers an appeal made under section 15 A, a member of the Disciplinary Committee against whose decision the appeal is made who is also a member of the Authority shall not present or in any way participate in any proceedings relating to the appeal. Termination in the public interest 15C. (1) Where the Authority finds or where representations are made to the Authority that it is desirable that the service of an officer or a servant be terminat ed in the public interest, the Authority may call for a full report from the s uperior officer of the officer or servant against whom the representations are made which shall contain particulars re lating to the work and conduct of the officer or servant. (2) If, after considering the report received under subsection (1), the Authority is satisfied th at, having regard to the conditions of service, the usefulness of the officer or servant, the work and conduct of the officer or servan t and all other circumstances of the case, it is desirable in the public interest so to do, the Authority may terminate the servi ce of the officer or servant with effect from such date as the Authority shall specify. (3) It shall be lawful for the a ppropriate Discipli nary Committee to recommend to the Authority that the service of an officer or a servant be terminated in the publ ic interest notwithstanding that disciplinary proceedings have not been carr ied out under this Act and the Authority may so terminat e the service of the officer or servant. (4) Notwithstanding anything in this Act and any other law to the contrary, in terminating the se rvice of an officer or a servant in the public interest under this section, the office r or servant may not be given any opport unity of being heard and an officer or a servant whose service has been te rminated in the public interest under this section shall not be regarded as having dismissed, regardless of whether the terminat ion of service of the officer or servant involved an element of punishment or was connected with 069e.fm Friday, March 31, 2006 4:21 PM

 Kemubu Agricultural De velopment Authority 17 conduct in relation to his office which the Authority regards as unsatisfactory or blameworthy. Regulations governing conditions of service of officers and servants 16. The Authority may, from time to time, with the approval of the Minister, make regulations gove rning the conditions of service of its officers and servants. PART IV FINANCE Establishment of the Fund 17. (1) For the purposes of this Ac t there is established a fund to be administered and cont rolled by the Authority. (2) The Fund shall consist of— (a) such sums as may be provi ded from time to time for those purposes by Parliame nt or the Legislative Assembly of the State; (b) such sums as may be allocate d from time to time to the Authority from loan funds; (c) moneys earned by the ope ration of any project, scheme or enterprise financed from the Fund; (d) moneys earned or arising from any property, investments, mortgages, charges or debentures acquired by or vested in the Authority; (e) any property, investments, mortgages, charges or debentures acquired by or vested in the Authority; (f) sums borrowed by the Authority for the purpose of meeting any of its obligations or discharging any of its duties; and (g) all other sums or property which may in any manner become payable to or ve sted in the Authority in respect of any matter inci dental to its powers and duties. 069e.fm Friday, March 31, 2006 4:21 PM

18 Laws of Malaysia ACT 69 (3) In this section the expr ession “loan funds” means such sums as may be made availa ble from time to time to the Government of the Federation by way of loan. Balancing of revenue account 18. It shall be the duty of the Au thority to conserve the Fund by so exercising and performing it s powers, functions and duties under this Act as to secure that the total revenues of the Authority are, subject to any directions given by the Minister under section 8, sufficient to meet all sums properly chargeable to its revenue account, including, without prejudi ce to the generality of that expression provisions in respect of its obligations under sections 17 and 19 and depreciati on and interest on capital, taking one year with another. Reserve fund 19. The Authority shall establis h and manage a reserve fund within the Fund. Expenses to be charged on the Fund 20. The Fund shall be expended for the purpose of— (a) paying all expenses incurred under section 25; (b) granting loans under section 27; (c) paying any expenses lawfully incurred by the Authority, including survey, legal and other fees and costs, and the remuneration of officers and servants appointed and employed by the Authority including superannuation allowances, pensions or gratuities; (d) paying any other expenses , cost or expenditure properly incurred or accepte d by the Authority in the execution of its duty or in the discharge of its functions under section 4; (e) purchasing or hiring plant, equipment, machinery, stores and any other materials and acquiring land and erecting buildings and carr ying out any other works and undertakings in the execut ion of its duty or in the discharge of its functions under section 4; 069e.fm Friday, March 31, 2006 4:21 PM

 Kemubu Agricultural De velopment Authority 19 (f) repaying any moneys borrowe d under this Act and the interest due thereon; and (g) generally, paying any expenses for carrying into effect the provisions of this Act. Expenditure and preparation of Estimates 21. (1) The expenses of the Author ity up to such amount as may be authorized by the Minister for any one year shall be defrayed out of the Fund. (2) Before the beginning of Se ptember of each year the Authority shall submit to the Mini ster an estimate of the expenses (including those for development projects) for the following year in such form and containing such particulars as the Minister may direct; and the Minister shall before the beginning of that following year notify the Authorit y of the amount authorized for expenses generally or of th e amounts authorized for each description of expenditure. (3) The Authority may, at any ti me, submit to the Minister a supplementary estimate for any one year and th e Minister may allow the whole or any part of the additional expenditure included therein. (4) The Minister may direct th e Authority to submit a copy of the estimate or supplementary estima te, as the case may be, to the Government of the State or to any other person as may be specified in the direction. Accounts and audit 22. (1) The Authority shall ke ep proper accounts and other records in respect of its operati on and shall prepare statement of accounts in respect of each financial year. (2) The accounts of the Authorit y shall be audited annually by the Auditor General or other au ditor appointed by the Authority with the approval of the Minister. (3) After the end of each financ ial year, and as soon as the accounts of the Authority have be en audited, the Authority shall cause a copy of the statement of accounts to be transmitted to the 069e.fm Friday, March 31, 2006 4:21 PM

20 Laws of Malaysia ACT 69 Minister or, on being directed so to do by the Minister, to the Government of the Stat e or any other person, together with a copy of any observations ma de by the Auditor Gene ral or other auditor appointed under subsection (2) on any statement or on the accounts of the Authority. (4) The Minister shall cause a copy of every such statement and observations to be laid before the Dewan Rakyat. Surcharge 22A. (1) If it appears to the Author ity that any person who is or was in the employment of the Authority— (a) has failed to collect any moneys owing to the Authority for the collection of which he is responsible; (b) is or was responsible for any payment from the Fund of moneys which ought not to have been made or for any payment of moneys which is not duly vouched; (c) is or was responsible, direc tly or indirectly, for any deficiency in, or for the destruction of, any moneys, stamps, securities, stores or other property of the Authority; (d) being or having been an accounting officer, fails or has failed to keep proper accounts or records; (e) has failed to make any payment, or is or was responsible for any delay in the payment, of moneys from the Fund to any person to whom such payment is due under any contract, ag reement or arrangement entered into between that person and the Authority, the Authority shall serve on him a written notice calling on him to show cause why he should not be surcharged, and if a satisfactory explanation is not, with in fourteen days from the date of service of the notice as aforesaid, furnis hed to the Authority with regard to the failure to collect, paym ent which ought not to have been made, payment not duly vouched, deficiency or destruction, or failure to keep proper accounts or records, or failure to make payment, or delay in making payment, the Authority may surcharge against the said pe rson a sum not exceeding the amount of any such amount not collecte d, such payment, deficiency, or 069e.fm Friday, March 31, 2006 4:21 PM

 Kemubu Agricultural De velopment Authority 21 loss or the value of the property de stroyed, as the case may be, and with regard to the failure to keep proper accounts or records, or the failure to make payment, or th e delay in making payment, the Authority may surcharge against th e said person such sum as the Authority may think fit. (2) The Chairman shall cause the Deputy Chairman to be notified of any surcharge made under subsection (1) and the Deputy Chairman shall thereupon notify the person surcharged. (3) The Authority may at any ti me withdraw any surcharge in respect of which a satisfactory e xplanation has been received or if it otherwise appears that no surcharge s hould have been made, and the Chairman shall at once cause the Deputy Chairman to be notified of such withdrawal. (4) The amount of any surcha rge made under subsection (1) and not withdrawn under subsection (3) shall be a debt due to the Authority from the person agains t whom the surc harge is made and may be sued for and recovered in any court at the suit of the Authority and may also be recovered by deduction— (a) from the salary of the person surcharged if the Authority so directs; (b) from the pension of the person surcharged if the Authority so directs, by equal monthly instalments no t exceeding one-fourth of the total monthly salary or pension, as the case may be, of the person. PART V OTHER POWERS OF THE AUTHORITY Delegation of powers of the Authority 23. (1) The Authority may, subject to such conditi ons, limitations or restrictions as it thinks fit, delegate to the Chairman, Deputy Chairman or any other person the power and authority to carry out on its behalf such powers, duties or functions by this Act vested in or imposed on the Authority as the Authority may determine except the power to borrow money, raise loans or make regulations; and any power or functions so delegated may be exercised or performed by the Chairman or Deputy Chairman or such other person, as the case may be, in the name and on behalf of the Authority. 069e.fm Friday, March 31, 2006 4:21 PM

22 Laws of Malaysia ACT 69 (2) Without prejudice to the genera lity of subsection (1), the Authority may delegate to the Chairman, Deputy Chairman, any of its other member s or any person authority to sanction expenditure from the Fund or a ny other money under the control of the Authority up to such limi t as the Authority shall in such case specify. Power to borrow 24. (1) The Authority may, from time to time borrow, at such rate of interest and for such period and upon su ch terms as to the time and method of repayment and otherwise as the Minister may approve, any sums required by th e Authority for meeting any of its obligations or discharging any of its duties. (2) The Authority may, from time to time, with the approval of the Minister, borrow money by the issue of bonds, debentures or debenture stock, or raise capita l by the issue of shares or stock of such class and value and upon such terms as it may deem expedient for all or any of the following purposes: (a) the provisions of working capital; (b) the fulfilling of the duties of the Authority under this Act; (c) the fulfilling of such addi tional functions as may be undertaken by the Authority under this Act; (d) the redemption of any shar es or stock which it is required or entitled to redeem; and (e) any other expenditure properl y chargeable to capital account. Investment 25. The assets of the Authority shall, in so far as they are not required to be expended by the Authority under this Act, be invested in such manner as the Minister of Finance may approve. Power to employ agents 26. The Authority may employ a nd pay agents and technical advisers including advocates a nd solicitors, bankers, stock- brokers, surveyors or valuers or other persons, to transact any 069e.fm Friday, March 31, 2006 4:21 PM

 Kemubu Agricultural De velopment Authority 23 business or to do any act required to be transacted or done in the execution of its duties or for th e better carrying in to effect the purposes of this Act. Power to make loans 27. In the execution of its duty or in the discharge of its functions, the Authority may make loans, and such loans may be granted subject to such terms a nd conditions as the Authority may deem fit to impose in particular cases. Powers to establish corporation 28. (1) The Authority may from ti me to time by Order published in the Gazette establish a corporation by such name as the Authority may think fit to carry out and have the charge, conduct and management of a ny project, scheme or enterprise which has been planned or undertaken by the Authority in execution of its duties or discharge of its functions. (2) The provisions of the Sec ond Schedule shall apply to the corporation established by the Authority under subsection (1). Compulsory acquisition of land 29. (1) When any immovable propert y, not being State land, is needed to be acquired by the Au thority for the purposes of this Act, such property may be acquired in accordance with the provisions of any written law rela ting to the acquisition of land for a public purpose for the time being in force in the State, and any declaration required by any such wr itten law that such land is so needed may be made notwithsta nding that compensation is to be paid by the Authority; and such d eclaration shall ha ve effect as if it were a declaration that such land is needed for a public purpose in accordance with such written law. (2) The expenses and compen sation in respect of any immovable property acqui red under this section shall be paid by the Authority. (3) When any immovable propert y has been acquired under this section, the Authority shall extract the necessary documents of title in respect of such property and shall pay any rent to which such property may be subject. 069e.fm Friday, March 31, 2006 4:21 PM

24 Laws of Malaysia ACT 69 PART VI GENERAL 30. (Deleted by Act 478 ). Obligation of secrecy 31. (1) Except for the purpose of th is Act or of any criminal proceedings under this Act, no me mber, officer or servant of the Authority shall disclose any info rmation which has been obtained by him in the course of his dut ies and which is not published in pursuance of this Act. (2) Any person contravening the provisions of subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence a nd shall be liable on conviction to imprisonment for a term not exceed ing six months or to a fine not exceeding one thousand ringgit or to both. Power to make regulations 32. (1) The Authority may, with th e approval of the Minister, make such regulations as may be expedient or necessary for the better carrying out of th e provisions of the Act. (2) Without prejudice to subsecti on (1), regulations under that subsection may be made for— (a) prescribing the manner in which documents, cheques and instruments of any desc ription shall be signed or executed on behalf of the Authority; (b) prescribing for the respons ibilities and control of officers and servants of the Authority; (c) imposing fees in such cases as may be determined by the Authority; (d) providing for such matters in connection with shares, stock, bonds, debentures or debenture stock issued under this Act as may appear necessary or expedient to the Authority, and, in pa rticular, for regulating the method of issue, transfer, redemption or other dealing with such shares, stoc k, bonds, debentures or debenture stock; 069e.fm Friday, March 31, 2006 4:21 PM

 Kemubu Agricultural De velopment Authority 25 (e) prescribing the manner in which and the terms and conditions on wh ich loans may be granted by the Authority under section 27; and (f) providing generally for the exercise of its powers and duties under the provisions of this Act. (3) Such regulations— (a) may prescribe that any act or omission in contravention of the provisions of any regul ation shall be an offence; and (b) may provide for the imposit ion of penalties for such offences, which penalties shall not exceed one thousand ringgit. Power to make disciplinary regulations 32 A. (1) The Authority may, with th e approval of the Minister, make such disciplinary regulat ions as it deems necessary or expedient to provide for the discip line of the officers and servants of the Authority. (2) The disciplinary regulations made by the Authority under this section may include provisions for the interdiction with reduction in salary or in other remuneration, or provisions for the suspension without salary or othe r remuneration, of an officer or servant of the Authority during the pendency of disciplinary proceedings. (3) The disciplinary regulations made under this section shall create such disciplinary of fences and provide for such disciplinary punishments as the Au thority may deem appropriate, and the punishments so provide d may extend to dismissal or reduction in rank. (4) The disciplinary regulations made under this section shall, in prescribing the procedure for disciplinary proceedings, provide for an opportunity for the pers on against whom disciplinary proceedings are taken to make representations against the disciplinary charge laid against hi m before a decision is arrived at by the Disciplinary Committee except in the following cases: 069e.fm Friday, March 31, 2006 4:21 PM

26 Laws of Malaysia ACT 69 (a) where an officer or a se rvant of the Authority is dismissed or reduced in rank on the ground of conduct in respect of which a crimin al charge has been proved against him; (b) where the Authority, on the recommendations of the Minister charged with th e responsibility for home affairs, is satisfied that in the interest of the security of Malaysia or any part ther eof it is not expedient to carry out the requirements of this subsection; or (c) where there has been made against an officer or a servant of the Authority any order of detention, supervision, restricted re sidence, banishment or deportation, or where there has been imposed on an officer or a servant of the Authority any form of restriction or supervision, by bond or otherwise, under any law relating to the securi ty of Malaysia or any part thereof, prevention of crim e, preventive detention, restricted residence, ba nishment, immigration, or protection of women and girls. (5) The disciplinary regulations made under this section shall provide for the procedure for the he aring of an appeal against the decision of the Disciplinary Committee. (6) For the purpose of this section, “officer” includes the Deputy Chairman. Things done in anticipation of this Act 33. All things done by any person or authority on behalf of the Authority in the preparation of and towards the proper implementation of any of the provisions of this Act and any expenditure incurred in relation thereto, in anticipation of the promulgation of this Act, shall be deemed to have been aut horized by this Ac t; and all rights and obligations acquired or impos ed on behalf of the Authority from anything so done or any e xpenditure so incurred shall upon the coming into force of this Act be deemed to be the rights and obligations of the Authority. 069e.fm Friday, March 31, 2006 4:21 PM

 Kemubu Agricultural De velopment Authority 27 FIRST SCHEDULE [Subsection 5(3)] Terms and conditions of appointment, revocation and resignation 1. (1) A member of the Authority shall ho ld office for such term and subject to such conditions as may be specified in the instrument appointing him. (2) The appointment of any member may at any time be revoked by the appointing authority without assigning any reason therefor. (3) A member may at any time resign his office by letter addressed to the appointing authority. (4) A member shall devote such time to the business of the Authority as may be necessary to the discharge of his duties. Office deemed vacated 2. (1) The office of a member of the Authority shall be deemed to have been vacated— (a) if he dies; or (b) if there has been proved against him, or he has been convicted on, a charge in respect of— (i) an offence involving fraud, dishonesty or moral turpitude; or (ii) an offence under any law relating to corruption; or (iii) any other offence punishable with imprisonment (in itself only or in addition to or in lieu of a fine) for more than two years; or (c) if he becomes bankrupt; or (d) if he is of unsound mind or is otherwise incapable of performing his duties; or (e) if he absents himself from three cons ecutive meetings without leave of the Authority; or (f) in the event of his resignation being accepted; or (g) if his appointment is revoked. (2) Where any member ceases to be a memb er by reason of any of the provisions of this Act, a person shall be appointed in his place in accordance with the provisions applying. Remuneration and allowances 3. There shall be paid to members of the Authority or any other person such salaries, remuneration or allowances as the Authority may determine after consultation with the Minister. 069e.fm Friday, March 31, 2006 4:21 PM

28 Laws of Malaysia ACT 69 Meetings 4. (1) The Authority shall meet at least once in every month. (2) The quorum of the Authority shall be four. (3) At all meetings of the Authority the Chairman, or in his absence, such member as the members present may elect, shall preside. (4) If on any question to be determined by the Authority there is an equality of votes, the Chairman or the member presiding shall have a casting vote in addition to his deliberative vote. (5) Subject to subparagraphs (1), (2), (3) and (4), the Authority shall determine its own procedure. Authority may invite others to meetings 5. The Authority may request any person (not being a member of the Authority) to attend any meeting or deliberation of the Authority for the purpose of advising it on any matter under discussion, but any person so attending shall have no right to vote at the said meeting or deliberation. Common seal 6. (1) The Authority shall have a common s eal, which shall bear such device as the Authority shall approve and such seal may from time to time be broken, changed, altered or made anew, as the Authority may think fit. (2) Until a seal is provided by the Authority a stamp bearing the description “Kemubu Agricultural Development Authority” may be used and shall be deemed to be a common seal. (3) The common seal or the stamp referred to in subparagraph (2) shall be kept in the custody of the Chairman or such other person as may be authorized by the Authority, and shall be auth enticated by either the Ch airman or such authorized person or by any officer authorized by ei ther of them in wr iting; and all deeds, documents and other instruments purporting to be sealed with the said seal, authenticated as aforesaid, shall until the contrary is proved be deemed to have been validly executed: Provided that any document or instrument which if executed by a person not being a body corporate would not be required under seal may in like manner be executed by the Authority and any such document or instrument may be executed on behalf of the Authority by any officer or servant of the Authority generally or specially authorized by the Authority in that behalf. (4) The seal of the Aut hority shall be officially and judicially noticed. Disclosure of interest 7. A member of the Authority having, dir ectly or indirectly, by himself or his partner, any interest in any company or undertaking with which the Authority 069e.fm Friday, March 31, 2006 4:21 PM

 Kemubu Agricultural De velopment Authority 29 proposes to make any contract or having any interest in any such contract or in any matter under discussion by the Authority shall disclose to the Authority the fact of his interest and the nature thereof, and such di sclosure shall be recorded in the minutes of the Authority, and unless specifically authorized thereto by the Chairman, such member shall take no part in any deliberation or decision of the Authority relating to the contract. Minutes 8. (1) The Authority shall cause minutes of all meetings of the Authority to be maintained and kept in a proper form. (2) Any minutes made of meetings of the Authority shall, if duly signed, be receivable in evidence in all legal pro ceedings without furt her proof and every meeting of the Authority in respect of th e proceedings of which minutes have been so made shall be deemed to have been duly convened and held and all members thereat to have been duly qualified to act. Validity of act and proceedings 9. No act done or proceeding taken unde r this Act shall be questioned on the ground— (a) of any vacancy in the membership of, or of any defect in the constitution of, the Authority; or (b) of the contravention by any member of the Authority relating to the disclosure of interest by such member; or (c) of any omission, defect or irregular ity not affecting the merits of the case. SECOND SCHEDULE [Subsection 28(2)] Power of Authority to make regulations in respect of a corporation 1. The Authority shall, on or before the date on which any corporation is established under section 28, make regulations in respect of such corporation defining— (a) the purposes and objects for whic h such corporation is established; (b) the rights, powers, duties and functions of such corporation; (c) the systems of management thereof; and (d) the relations between such corporation and the Authority and its rights of control over such corporation. 069e.fm Friday, March 31, 2006 4:21 PM

30 Laws of Malaysia ACT 69 Saving 2. Nothing in paragraph 1 shall be deemed to authorize the Authority to make regulations to establish any corporation fo r any purpose or object more extensive in scope than the purposes or objects for which the Authority was constituted or to confer on any corporation any right, duty, power or function which is not within the rights, duties, powers or functions of the Authority under this Act. Regulations subject to the Act 3. Subject to the provisions of this Act and of any regulations made under section 32, any regulations made under paragraph 1 shall be binding on the corporation in respect of which they were made and shall have effect for all purposes as if they had been enacted in this Act. Amendment of the regulations 4. The Authority may at any time amend, revoke, or add to, any regulations made in respect of any corporation under paragr aph 1 and section 34 of the Interpretation Acts 1948 and 1967 [ Act 388 ] shall apply to any such amended or revoked regulations as if such regulations had been written law. Register of corporation 5. The Authority shall keep a register in the prescribed form of all corporations established by it under section 28 and such register together with copies of all regulations made under paragraph 1 shall be open to public inspection at such place and at such times as it may prescribe. Winding up 6. (1) The Authority may by order published in the Gazette direct that any corporation established by it shall be wound up and dissolved. (2) Upon the dissolution of any corporatio n under this paragraph the assets of the corporation after payment of all liabilities shall be transferred to and vested in the Authority. (3) The winding up of a corporation under this paragraph shall be conducted in such manner as the Authority may prescribe. Corporation to be bodies corporate 7. Every corporation established under section 28 shall be a body corporate by such name as the Authority shall give to such corporation and shall have perpetual succession and a common seal and may sue and be sued in such name, and for the purpose of carrying into effect the register ed development project for which it has been established may enter into contracts and may hold and deal in or with any immovable or movable property and may do all other matters and things incidental or appertaining to a body corporate not inco nsistent with the provisions of this Act and subject to such restrictions or limitations as may be prescribed by the Authority in each case. 069e.fm Friday, March 31, 2006 4:21 PM

 Kemubu Agricultural De velopment Authority 31 Common seal of the corporation 8. (1) Every corporation shall have a comm on seal, which shall bear such device as the corporation, with the approval of the Authority may approve, and such seal may from time to time be broken, changed, altered and made anew by the corporation, with the approval of the Authority as the corporation shall think fit. (2) Until a seal is provided by the co rporation under this paragraph a stamp bearing the name of the corporation enci rcling the letters “KEMUBU” may be used as a common seal. (3) The common seal, or the stamp referred to in subparagraph (2), shall be in the custody of such person as the corporation shall direct and sha ll be authenticated by such person; and all deeds, documents and other instruments purporting to be sealed with the said seal, authenticated as afores aid, shall until the contrary is proved, be deemed to have been validly executed: Provided that any document or instrument which if executed by a person not being a body corporate would not be required to be under seal may in like manner be executed by the corporation; and any such document or instrument may be executed on behalf of the corporation by any officer or servant of the corporation generally or specially authorized by the corporation in that behalf. (4) The seal of every corporation shall be officially and judicially noticed. 069e.fm Friday, March 31, 2006 4:21 PM

32 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 69 KEMUBU AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY ACT 1972 LIST OF AMENDMENTS Amending law Short title In force from Act A155 Kemubu Agricultural Development Authority (Amendment) Act 1972 131972 Act 160 Malaysian Currency (Ringgit) Act 1975 291975 Act A762 Kemubu Agricultural Development Authority (Amendment) Act 1990 011990 Act 478 Revocation of Exemption from Payment of Stamp Duties Act 1992 211992 Act A1052 Kemubu Agricultural Development Authority (Amendment) Act 1999 011999 069e.fm Friday, March 31, 2006 4:21 PM

33 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 69 KEMUBU AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY ACT 1972 LIST OF SECTIONS AMENDED Section Amending aut hority In force from 5 Act A155 131972 15A Act A762 011990 Act A1052 011999 15B Act A1052 011999 15C Act A1052 011999 22A Act A762 011990 30 Act 478 211992 31 Act 160 291975 32 Act 160 291975 32 A Act A762 011990 Act A1052 011999 First Schedule Act A1052 011999 Second Schedule Act A155 131972 069e.fm Friday, March 31, 2006 4:21 PM