LAWS OF MALAYSIA ONLINE VERSION OF UPDATED TEXT OF REPRINT Act 133 STREET, DRAINAGE AND BUILDING ACT 1974 As at 31 December 2019 

2 STREET, DRAINAGE AND BUILDING ACT 1974 Date of Royal Assent … … … 5 June 1974 Date of publication in the Gazette … … 13 June 1974 Latest amendment made by Act A1588 which came into operation on … … … 27 December 2019 PREVIOUS REPRINTS First Reprint … … … 1997 Second Reprint … … … 2000 Third Reprint … … … 2006 

3 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 133 STREET, DRAINAGE AND BUILDING ACT 1974 ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS PART I PRELIMINARY Section 1. Short title, application and commencement 2. Savings 3. Interpretation PART II STREETS 4. Maintenance and repair of public streets 5. Power to make and improve streets 6. Power to take land adjoining new streets for building purposes 7. Power to acquire to be in accordance with law relating to compulsory acquisition 8. Local authority may recover cost of new street or of widening, opening, etc., of public street 9. Private persons making new streets 10. Approval of plans to expire 11. Paving, etc., of private streets 12. Declaration of public street 13. Private streets may be declared public streets 14. Widening of private streets 

4 Laws of Malaysia ACT 133 Section 15. Repair of private streets 16. Notice on person causin g private street to be in a dangerous or defective condition 17. Payments to be made before erection of buildings in respect of street works 18. Determination of the amount to be deposited and the date of completion 19. Local authority may execute and cause to be pr operly carried out street works 20. Refund of deposit when street works have been completed 21. Refund of deposit when building operations are not commenced 22. Preparation of scheme for building 23. Regular line of street may be prescribed 24. Local authority in certain cas es may take possession of land within the regular line of street 25. Provision of footways, etc. 26. Local authority may put up lamp posts and lamps 27. Situation of water pipes, etc., to be altered at the expense of the local authority 28. Where road is injured by excavation local authority may repair and recover expenses 29. Names of streets 30. Designation of fire hydrants 31. Numbers on houses 32. Doors not to open outwards 33. Projections from houses not to be allowed 34. Projecting verandas, etc., may be made in streets not less than 40 feet wide 35. Sky-signs 36. Hedges and trees bordering streets to be trimmed 37. Prevention of grass fires 38. Trees not to be planted within twelve feet of street 39. Taking up pavement 40. Prohibition of laying rails, mains, pipes, etc., along streets 

Street, Drainage and Building 5 Section 41. Precautions against accident. Bars to be erected across streets during repairs and lights placed at night 42. Materials not to be deposited without permission 43. Dangerous places to be repaired or enclosed 44. Duty of owner or occupier to keep street clean 45. Watering streets 46. Obstruction 47. Depositing dirt on streets, etc. 48. Interpretation, sections 46 and 47 PART III DRAINS 49. (Deleted) 50. Local authority to construct and maintain drains and water-courses 51. Local authority may recover cost of improving and making drains, etc. 52. Prohibition aga inst building unless provision made for drains, etc., and compliance with any notice or order 53. Local authority to repair and alter and may discontinue surface and storm water drains, etc. 54. Cleansing and emptying surface and storm water drains, etc. 55. Penalty for making unauthorized drains into canal or stream 56. Rain-water pipes not to be used as soil pipes 57. Water pipes, etc., not to be used as ventilating shafts 58. Interpretation 59. Local authority may require removal or alteration of urinals 60. (Deleted) 61. Ventilating pipes to sewers 62-64. (Deleted) 

6 Laws of Malaysia ACT 133 PART IV BACK-LANES Section 65. Local authority may acquire land for part of back-lane 66. State Authority may order back-lanes to be laid out 67. Local authority may recover cost of acquisition for and laying out or construction of back-lanes 68. Declaration of back-lane as public street 69. General provisions as to back-lanes PART V BUILDINGS 70. Notice of new buildings 70A. Earthworks 70B. Order to review safety and stability in the course of erection of building 70C. Revocation of approval of any plan, specification and permission 70D. Inspection of erection of building at any stage and taking of sample for analysis 71. Penalty for failure of building or earthworks 72. Demolition or removal of unauthorized building 73. Penalty for letting out and sale of unauthorized building 74. Modification or waiver of by-laws 75. Land to be set apart for back-lane 76. Prohibition of building on insanitary ground 77. Buildings over public sewers, private connection pipe etc., not to be erected without consent of local authority 78. Removal of roofs and walls made of combustible materials 79. Erection compartments, galleries, lofts, etc., in buildings 80. Movable shed not to be erected without permission 81. Local Authority may cause drains to be made for premises which are not properly drained 

Street, Drainage and Building 7 Section 82. Hoardings to be set up during building operations 83. Powers as regards building in ruinous and dangerous state 84. Power to shut up and secure deserted buildings 85. Building to which public have access to be clean 85A. Periodical inspection of buildings and slopes 86. Nuisances liable to be dealt with summarily under this Act 87. Notice requiring abatement of nuisance 88. On non-compliance with notice, nuisance order to be made 89. Order for demolition of house unfit for habitation 90. Execution order for demolition PART VI MISCELLANEOUS 91. Mandatory order 92. Provision as to appeal against order 93. Proceedings where owner is unknown 94. In case of urgency order may be made ex parte 95. Protection of the State Authority and officers from personal liability 96. Indemnity by local authority 97. Power to enter upon lands for the purposes of this Act 98. Power of any authority to enter on lands adjacent to works 99. Any local authority in executing works to provide alternative roads, etc., where existing ones are interrupted, etc. 100. Penalty for obstructing any authority in its duty 101. Compensation, damages and costs to be determined by court 102. Where occupier defaults owner may execute work 103. Exemption of agent who has no funds in hand 104. Recovery of expenses and costs payable by owners 105. Recovery of expenses and costs by instalments 106. Proceedings for recovery of arrears 

8 Laws of Malaysia ACT 133 Section 107. Attachment 108. Application of proceeds 109. Title conferred by purchase at sale under section 106 110. Cost of proceedings for recovery of arrears 111. Power to stop sale 112. Application to court 113. Security to be given 114. Liability of transferor 115. Proceedings if an occupier opposes the execution of works 116. Disposal of matters and things removed by local authority 117. Licences to be discretionary 118. Notices, etc. 119. Receipts and notice may be given by officer authorized thereunto 120. Service of notices 121. Default in compliance with notice. General penalty 122. Court for trial of offences 123. Prosecution 124. Employee of authority may demand names and addresses in certain cases 125. Power of arrest 126. Saving of prosecutions 127. General penalties 128. Damage to property of local authority to be made good in addition to penalty 129. Inaccuracies in documents 130. Evidence 131. Evidential provisions 132. Improvement Service Fund PART VII BY-LAWS 133. By-laws 

Street, Drainage and Building 9 PART VIII REPEALS, TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS, ETC. Section 134. Repeals, transitional provisions, etc. 135. Power of State Authority to make transitional provisions, etc. SCHEDULE 

 

11 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 133 STREET, DRAINAGE AND BUILDING ACT 1974 An Act to amend and consolidate the laws relating to street, drainage and building in local authority ar eas in Peninsular Malaysia, and for purposes connected therewith. [See Appendix] WHEREAS it is desired to introduce in the form of an Act of Parliament a uniform system with respect to street, drainage and building in local authority areas in Peninsular Malaysia; AND WHEREAS it is now expedient for the purpose only of ensuring uniformity of law and policy to make a law with regard to local government matters relating to street, drainage and building; NOW THEREFORE , pursuant to the provisions of C lause (4) of Article 76 of the Constitution BE IT ENACTED by the Seri Paduka Baginda Yang di -Pertuan Agong with the advice and consent of the Dewan Negara and Dewan Rakyat in Parliament assembled, and by the authority of the same, as follows: PART I PRELIMINARY Short title, application and commencement 1. (1) This Act may be cited as the Street, Drainage and Building Act 1974. 

12 Laws of Malaysia ACT 133 (2) This Act shall apply only to Peninsular Malaysia. (3) This Act shall come into force on such date as the Min ister may, after consultation with the State Authority, appoint in relation to that State by a notification in the Gazette and the Minister may, after consultation with the State Authority, appoint different dates for the coming into force of different provisions of this Act and may bring all or any provisions thereof into force either in all the local authority areas of a State to which the notification applies or in such local authority area of the State as may be specified in the notification. (4) Notwithstanding subsection (3) the State Authority may by notification in the Gazette exempt any area of any local authority from any or all the provisions of this Act or any by-laws made thereunder. (5) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (3), in relation to the Federal Territory this Act shall come into force on such date as the Minister may appoint by a notification in the Gazette. (6) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (3) the State Authority may by notification in the Gazette extend any or all the provisions of this Act to apply to the whole or any part of any area within the State which is not under any local authority; and may make such modifications, amendments or variations to the provisions as may be necessary for the purpose of application to such area. Savings 2. Nothing in this Act shall affect the past operation of, or anything done under the provisions of, any law relating to street, drainage and building in local authority areas passed before the commencemen t of this Act: Provided that any right, liberty, privilege, obligation or liability existing at the commencement of this Act by virtue of any such law shall, except as hereinafter expressly provided, be subject to the provisions of this Act. 

Street, Drainage and Building 13 Interpretation 3. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires— “arcade” includes verandah; “building” includes any house, hut, shed or roofed enclosure, whether used for the purpose of a human habitation or otherwise, and also any wall, fence, platform, staging, gate, post, pillar, paling, frame, hoarding, slip, dock, wharf, pier, jetty, landing-stage or bridge, or any structure support or foundation connected to the foregoing; “building plans” means plans that include site plans, key plans, floor plans, sections and elevations as set out specifically in any by -laws made under this Act; “certificate of completion and compliance” means the certificate given or granted under any by-laws made under this Act;’; “developer” means any person, body of persons, company, firm or society who or which engages in or carries on or undertakes the business of developing or providing moneys for development or purchasing or partly developing and providing moneys for purchasing buildings; “dwelling hou se” includes a building or tenement wholly or principally used, constructed or adapted for use for human habitation; “footway” includes footpaths and verandah -ways at the sides of streets; “frontager” means the owner of premises fronting on, adjoin ing, abutting on, or (though not actually so fronting, adjoining or abutting) adjacent or accessible to a street or back-lane or where— (a) the owner of the premises by himself or his tenant has the right to use or commonly does use the street or backlane as a means of access to or drainage from the premises; and 

14 Laws of Malaysia ACT 133 (b) in the opinion of the local authority, the use or the right to use is for the advantage or benefit of the land; “geotechnical” means an engineering field in relation to the behavior of soil and roc k which includes the types, conditions, profiles, structural design, slope stabilization and other monitoring works related to the behavior of the soil and rock; “house” includes dwelling-house, warehouse, office, countinghouse, shop, school, and any other building in which persons are employed; “Improvement Service Fund” means the Improvement Service Fund established under section 132; “local authority” means any city council, municipal council, town council, town board, local council, rural bo ard or similar local authority established by written law and in relation to the Federal Territory means the Commissioner of the City of Kuala Lumpur appointed under section 3 of the Federal Capital Act 1960 [Act 190]; “nuisance” means any act, omission or thing occasioning or likely to occasion injury, annoyance, offence, harm, danger or damage to the sense of sight, smell or hearing, or which is or is likely to be injurious or dangerous to health or property; “occupier” means the person in actual occupation of the land or building in respect of which the word is used, or having the charge, management or control thereof either on his own account or as agent of another person, but does not include a lodger; “owner” means— (a) the registered proprietor of the land; (b) the lessee of a lease including a sub -lessee of the land whether registered or not; (c) the agent or trustee of any of the owners described in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this definition if in the opinion of 

Street, Drainage and Building 15 a local authority any of those perso ns cannot be traced or, if any of those persons has died, his legal personal representative; (d) the person for the time being receiving the rent of the premises in connection with which the word is used whether on his own account or as agent or trustee for a ny other person or as receiver or who would receive the same if such premises were let to a tenant; “partial certificate of completion and compliance” means the certificate given or granted under any by-laws made under this Act; “person” includes a company, a partnership, a body of persons and a corporation sole; “a place of public resort” means a building, or a defined or enclosed place used or constructed or adapted to be used either ordinarily or occasionally as a church, chapel, mosque, temple or other place where public worship is or religious ceremonies are performed, not being merely a dwelling house so used, or as a cinema, theatre, public hall, public concert room, public ballroom, public lecture room, or public exhibition room, restaurant, night club, terminus, or shopping arcade, or as a public place of assembly for persons admitted thereto by ticket or otherwise, or used or constructed or adapted to be used either ordinarily or occasionally for any other public purpose; “premises” includes messuages, houses, buildings, lands, tenements, easements and hereditaments of any tenure, whether open or enclosed, whether built on or not, whether public or private, and whether maintained or not under statutory authority; “principal submitting person” means a qualified person who submits building plans to the local authority for approval in accordance with this Act or any by -laws made thereunder and includes any other qualified person who takes over the duties and responsibilities of or acts for the first-mentioned qualified person; 

16 Laws of Malaysia ACT 133 “private connection pipe” has the same meaning assigned to it under the *Water Services Industry Act 2006 [Act 655]; “private street” means any street not being a public street; “public street” means any street over which the public has a right of way which was usually repaired or maintained by the local authority before the coming into operation of this Act or which has been transferred to or has become vested in the local authority under this Act or in any other manner; “qualified person” means a Professional Architect, Professional Engineer or building draughtsman registered under any written law relating to the registration thereof; “sewer” has the same meaning assigned to it under the *Water Services Industry Act 2006 [Act 655]; “sewerage system” has the same meaning assigned to it under the *Water Services Industry Act 2006; “sky-sign” means any erection consisting of a frame, hoarding, board, bar, pillar, post, wire or any combination of such things, or any erection of a like nature, or any visible object which floats or is kept in position by wire or other flexible attachment, displayed for the purposes of trade or professional advertisement in such a position as to be conspicuously visible against the sky above the general level of the roofs or surrounding buildings from any street or public place; “slope” means a pitch of land surface or rock whether build or exists naturally including any erection which resist forces and moments o f the slope; “State Authority”, in relation to— *NOTE—The Sewerage Services Act 1993 [ Act 508] has been repealed by the Water Ser vices Industry Act 2006 [ Act 655] in respect of its application to Peninsular Malaysia and the Federal Territories of Putrajaya and Labuan, which comes into operation on 1 January 2008–see subsection 185(1) of Act 655. 

Street, Drainage and Building 17 (a) the States of Malaysia, means the Ruler or Yang di- Pertua Negeri of a State and includes in Negeri Sembilan the Yang di-Pertuan Besar acting on behalf of himself and the Ruling Chiefs; and (b) the Federal Territory of Kuala Lumpur means the Minister charged with the responsibility for local government; “street” includes any road, square, footway or passage, service road, whether a thoroughfare or not, over which the public have a right of way, and also the way over any bridge, and also includes any road, footway or passage, open court or open alley, used or intended to be used as a means of access to two or more holdings, whether the public have a right of way over it or not; and all channels, drains, ditches and reserves at the side of any street shall be deemed to be part of such street; “street works” includes work of sewering, levelling, paving, metalling, flagging, kerbing, channelling, draining, lighting, laying of water, gas or electricity serv ices and otherwise the making good a street or part of a street; “structural elements” means those parts or elements of a building which resist forces and moments and includes foundations, beams, columns, shear cores, slabs, roof trusses, staircases, load bearing walls and all other elements designed to resist forces and moments but excludes doors, windows and non-load bearing walls; “structural plan” means a plan relating to structural elements; “sullage” includes any household waste liquids discha rged from any bath, shower, lavatory, basin, floor gully, laundries or sink (not being a slop sink) but excludes faecal water and urine. “submitting person” means a qualified person who submits plans other than building plans to the local authority or relevant statutory authority in accordance with this Act or any by-laws made thereunder and includes any other qualified person who takes over the duties and responsibilities of or acts for the first mentioned qualified person; 

18 Laws of Malaysia ACT 133 “sullage” includes any household waste liquids discharged from any bath, shower, lavatory, basin, floor gully, laundries or sink (not being a slop sink) but excludes faecal water and urine. PART II STREETS Maintenance and repair of public streets 4. (1) The local authori ty shall, so far as the funds at its disposal will admit, cause all public streets together with the footways thereof, whether covered by arcades or not, to be maintained and repaired and may— (a) cause the same to be paved, metalled, flagged, channelled, drained, kerbed, lighted or otherwise improved, and the surface thereof to be raised, lowered or altered as it thinks fit; (b) make and keep in repair any footways for the use of foot passengers in any such street; (c) place on the sides of such footways or otherwi se such fences and posts as are needed for the protection of foot passengers; (d) provide street lighting. Boundary stones (2) The local authority may set up or affix to any premises abutting on a public street, boundary stones or other marks to denote the length, width and alignment of such street. 

Street, Drainage and Building 19 Penalty (3) Any person who removes, defaces or injures any stone or mark set up in accordance with this Act shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding five hundred ringgit. Owner or occupier to protect boundary stones (4) The owner and occupier of any premises in or against or to which such stone or mark is set up or affixed shall protect the same. (5) The expense of replacing any such stone or mark shall be paid by the occupier or, if the premises are unoccupied, by the owner, and shall be recoverable in the manner hereinafter provided. Power to make and improve streets 5. The local authority may, with the consent of the State Authority— (a) lay out and make new streets and back-lanes; (b) build and construct bridges and tunnels; (c) turn, divert, discontinue or stop up any public street; and (d) widen, open, enlarge or otherwise improve any public street. Power to take land adjoining new streets for building purposes 6. (1) In laying out or making any new streets, or in widening, opening, enlarging or otherwise improving any public street, in addition to the land required for the carriageways and footways thereof, the local authority may request the State Authority, to acquire the land necessary for the buildings to form the said street and, with the consent of the State Authority may— 

20 Laws of Malaysia ACT 133 (a) erect any buildings upon the land so acquired or alter any existing buildings thereon; and (b) sell and dispose of such land or buildings with such stipulations and conditions as to the class and description of buildings to be erected on such land as it thinks fit. (2) For the purpose of subsection (1), in relation to the Federal Territory reference to the State Authority shall be construed as reference to the Government of the Federation. Power to acquire to be in accordance with law relating to compulsory acquisition 7. (1) Where any immovable property not being State land is needed to be acquired for any of the purposes under sections 5 and 6, such property may be acquired in accordance with any law relating to the compulsory acquisition of land for the time being in force in the State in which the property is situate. (2) For the purpose of subsection (1), in relation to the Fede ral Territory reference to the State land shall be construed as reference to Federal land. Local authority may recover cost of new street or of widening, opening, etc., of public street 8. (1) When the local authority has made a new street or has widened, opened, enlarged or otherwise improved a public street, it may, with the approval of the State Authority, recover the cost of acquiring the land for, and of— (a) constructing the new street; or (b) widening, opening, enlarging or otherwise improving the public street, 

Street, Drainage and Building 21 from the developer concerned or the frontagers or both. (2) If such sum is to be paid by the developer, it may be recovered from the developer. (3) If such cost is to be paid by the frontagers, the persons who are the frontagers when the work is completed shall be liable and the sum shall be recoverable in the manner hereinafter provided. (4) In determining the respective amounts to be paid by the frontagers or developers the local authority may take into consideration any or all of the following factors: (a) the frontage of their respective premises; (b) the area of their respective premises; (c) the degree of benefit to be derived by those premises from the construction of the street; (d) where any section of the street has previously been constructed, the amount and value of street works already executed by the frontager; (e) reasonable charges in respect of surveys and superintendence; (f) the cost of the premises voluntarily surrendered by the owners to the local authority; and (g) any other matters which in the opinion of the local authority are relevant and proper to be considered. (5) If the frontager or the developer is dissatisfied with the apportionment of costs, he may, within one month of the receipt of the notice of apportionment, appeal to the State Authority whose decision shall be final and shall not be subject to any appeal or review in any court. 

22 Laws of Malaysia ACT 133 (6) The local authority may exempt any frontager or class of frontagers from payment of the whole or part of the cost of the street works. Private persons making new streets 9. (1) No person shall make any new street without the prior written permission of the local authority. (2) Any person who intends to make any new street shall apply to the local authority, acc ompanied by a plan in duplicate, showing the intended level and construction of such street and the level of the houses to be built on the land abutting upon it and the proposed manner of draining it and by a statement specifying the use for which such street is intended: Provided that the local authority shall not approve the detailed plans of any new street unless the use of the land for this purpose has been approved by the competent authority under any law relating to town and country planning. (3) The local authority may give written directions to the person submitting a plan for a new street with regard to any of the following particulars: (a) compliance with this Act and any by -laws made thereunder; (b) the line of the new street, so as to ensure that it forms a continuous street with any existing or proposed new street; (c) the level, material and construction of the new street; (d) the provision of footpaths and the size, specification and gradient of such footpaths; (e) the provision along the length of the new street of intersecting streets or back-lanes; 

Street, Drainage and Building 23 (f) the width of the new street; (g) the width of any intersecting street or back -lane, which shall be of such width as the local authority requires; (h) the gradients, levels and mode of drainage of the new street and of any intersecting streets or back-lanes; (i) the rounding of the corners of new streets; (j) the provision of culverts and the sizes, specifications and gradients of such culverts; and (k) the provision of street lighting, and the person to whom any such w ritten directions are given shall amend the plan accordingly. (4) The person whose plan has been approved by the local authority and each successor in title of such person, in so far as the street lies in the land acquired by him, shall lay out the new street and demarcate its boundaries by such boundary stones or other marks as may be specified by the local authority to denote the length, width and alignment of the street. (5) If the new street has not been laid out and demarcated within the period of six months from the date when the plan was first approved or within such further period as may be approved by the local authority, the local authority may enter upon the land and lay out the new street and demarcate its boundaries at the expense of the person whose plan has been approved or of his successor in title. (6) The person whose plan has been approved by the local authority or his successor in title in so far as the street lies in the land acquired by him shall, if he constructs the new street, construct the new street in accordance with the plan approved by the local authority within such period as may be specified in such approval: Provided that the local authority may renew such approval for such period as it considers necessary. 

24 Laws of Malaysia ACT 133 (7) Any person who— (a) constructs any new street otherwise than in accordance with a plan approved by the local authority under this section; (b) without the permission in writing of the local authority plants any hedge in such manner that any part thereon is in any direction less than twenty feet from the centre of the carriageway of any street, not being a public street, or less than forty feet from the opposite side of any road or path which is used or intended to be used as the means of access to two or more houses exclusive of the width of any footway which the local authority requires; or (c) constructs any culvert or bridge on the line of the new street drainage otherwise than in accordance with the plans and specifications approved by the local authority, shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding two thousand ringgit, and a Magistrate’s Court shall, on the application of the local authority, make a mandatory order against the offender requiring him to execute any one or more of the following works: (i) to alter the street; (ii) to remove any hedge so planted; (iii) to alter or remove any culvert or bridge so constructed; or (iv) to comply with the plan approved by the local authority. (8) Where any new street is stated to be intended for pedestrians, the local authority may impose such conditions for ensuring that the same shall not be used by vehicles or classes of vehicles as may be specified by it. 

Street, Drainage and Building 25 (9) Any person who keeps open or uses such street in breach of the conditions imposed under subsection (8) shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding one thousand ringgit and shall also be liable to a further fine not exceeding one hundred ringgit for every day during which the offence is continued after service of a notice to cease the breach. (10) No person shall erect or maintain or permit to be erected or maintained any obstruction in any street, and the local authority may, where any such obstruction exists, take down and remove the same and cost and expenses of so doing may be recovered from the person who erects, maintains or permits the erection or maintenance of such obstruction and shall be recoverable in the manner hereinafter provided. (11) For the purposes of this section the continuation of an existing street or the widening or alteration of any existing street or the adapting for carriage traffic of a street made for other traffic shall be deemed to be making a new street in respect of the whole thereof. (12) If the person applying under subsection (2) is dis satisfied with any requisition or disapproval by the local authority, he may, within seven days from the receipt of such requisition or disapproval, appeal to the State Authority whose decision shall be final. (13) If the local authority does not, w ithin two months of receipt of the application and plan under this section approve, disapprove or make written requisition with regard thereto the applicant may then apply to the State Authority, and the powers vested in the local authority under this section shall then be vested in the State Authority. Approval of plans to expire 10. All plans for the making of a new street which were approved under the provisions of any written law before the coming into force of this Act shall expire at the end of one year from the date of coming into force of this Act: 

26 Laws of Malaysia ACT 133 Provided that the local authority may grant a renewal of such approval for such period as it may determine, but such renewal shall not in the aggregate exceed twelve months. Paving, etc., of private streets 11. (1) Where any private street or part of a private street in the opinion of the local authority requires street works, the local authority shall cause to be prepared plans and specifications of the street works and an estimate of the cost thereof and a provisional apportionment of such estimated expenses among the frontagers or developers or both and shall serve a notice of such decision upon each of the frontagers and developers requiring them to execute to the satisfaction and in accordance with the directions in writing of the local authority, such street works and within such period as may be specified in the notice. Apportionment of cost (2) In apportioning the estimated cost thereof among the frontagers or developers, the loca l authority may take into consideration any or all of the following factors: (a) the frontage of their respective premises; (b) the area of their respective premises; (c) the degree of benefit to be derived by those premises from the construction of such street works; (d) the amount and value of street works already executed by any frontager or developer; (e) reasonable charges in respect of surveys, superintendence and publication and service of notices; and (f) any other matters which in the opinion of the local authority are relevant and proper to be considered. 

Street, Drainage and Building 27 Plans, etc., to be open to inspection by or on behalf of any person upon whom notice served (3) During one month from the date of the issue for service of the notice referred to in subsection (1), the said pl ans, specifications, estimate and provisional apportionment shall be open to inspection by or on behalf of any person upon whom such notice has been served and by or on behalf of the owners of any building or holding listed at the office of the local authority; and such notice shall state— (a) that such plan, specification, estimate and provisional apportionment are so open to inspection as aforesaid during the usual office hours until a day (not less than one month from the date of issue for service of such notice) upon which the local authority will consider any objections to the proposed street works or to the plan, specification, estimate and provisional apportionment or any amendment thereof; and (b) that in default of compliance with the requirements of the local authority as stated in such notice, the local authority will itself cause the street works to be executed. Local authority may amend plan, etc., for any street works (4) The local authority may from time to time amend the plan, specification, estimate and provisional apportionment for any street works, but if by reason of such an amendment the estimate in respect of any private street or part thereof is increased or the provisional apportionment of the cost of such street works on any premises is increased, such notices previously served shall be withdrawn by the local authority and fresh notices based on the amended plan, specification, estimate and provisional apportionment or any of them shall be served by the local authority in accordance with the provisions of subsection (1) and the amended plan, specification, estimate and provisional apportionment shall be similarly open to inspection. 

28 Laws of Malaysia ACT 133 Frontagers may object to execution of proposed street works and to plan, etc. (5) During the period of one month referred to in subsection (3) the frontager or developer shown in the provisional apportionment or amended provisional apportionment as liable to be charged with any part of the expenses of executing the street works may, by notice in writing duly served upon the local authority, object to the proposed street works and to the plan, specification, estimate and provisional apportionment or to any one or more of them or to any amendment thereof pursuant to subsection (4), on any one or more of the following grounds: (a) that the alleged private street or part thereof is not or does not form part of a street within the meaning of this Act; (b) that the alleged private street or part thereof is (in whole or in part) a public street; (c) that there has bee n some material informality, defect or error in, or in respect of, the decision, notice, plan, specification, estimate or provisional apportionment or amendment thereof; (d) that the proposed street works are insufficient or unreasonable or that the expenses as estimated are excessive; (e) that any premises ought to be excluded from or listed in the provisional apportionment; (f) that the provisional apportionment or amended provisional apportionment is incorrect in respect of some matter of fact to be specified in the objection or (where the provisional apportionment is made with regard to other considerations other than frontage as provided in this section) in respect of the degree of benefit derived by any person or the amount and value of any street works already executed by the owner or occupier of any premises. 

Street, Drainage and Building 29 Objections (6) After objections duly made under subsection (5) have been inquired into and the persons making them have been allowed an opportunity of being heard, the local authority may at its dis cretion confirm or amend the plan, specification, estimate and provisional apportionment. (7) The plan, specification, estimate and provisional apportionment so confirmed or amended shall be open to inspection by the persons referred to in subsection (3) or (4) during the usual office hours at the office of the local authority and a notice stating that they are open to inspection shall be published in such manner as the local authority may determine. (8) No objection shall be made to such amende d requisition or estimates or apportionment. When local authority may execute work (9) If such street works— (a) are not commenced within the period specified in the notice served under subsection (1); or (b) are not commenced within thirty days from the date of such confirmation or amendment under subsection (6); or (c) having been commenced are thereafter suspended or are not completed within the period specified in the notice under subsection (1) or within thirty days of confirmation or amendment under subsection (6) as the case may be, the local authority may, if it thinks fit, cause the same to be executed and completed. 

30 Laws of Malaysia ACT 133 Final apportionment on completion of work (10) When the street works have been completed by the local authority and the cost thereof ascertained, the local authority shall cause a final apportionment of the cost of such street works to be made by dividing the expenses in the same proportions as those made in which the estimated expenses were divided in the provisional apportionment or amended provisional apportionment (as the case may be) and such final apportionment shall be conclusive for all purposes and notice of such final apportionment shall be served upon persons who are frontagers at the time of completion of the work aff ected thereby or the developers or both and the sums apportioned thereby shall be recoverable in the manner hereinafter provided. Extent of liability of owner when expenses exceeded (11) If the expenses incurred by the local authority in executi ng the street works as shown in the final apportionment exceeds the estimated expenses as shown in the provisional apportionment or amended provisional apportionment (as the case may be) the frontagers or developers affected shall not be liable to pay that part of such expenses as shown in the final apportionment which are in excess of a sum equal to the estimates shown in the said provisional apportionment plus ten per centum thereof. (12) (a) The local authority may instead of charging the frontagers or developers pay the whole or part of the cost of the street works and may exempt any premises or class of premises from payment of the whole or part of the cost apportioned to that premises or class of premises. (b) If the local authority exempt any premises or class of premises from payment of the whole or part of the apportioned cost, the local authority shall pay the sums apportioned to such premises or class of premises as if it were the owner of that premises or class of premises. (13) For the purpose of this section “developer” means the developer of lands belonging to persons who would be frontagers. 

Street, Drainage and Building 31 Declaration of public streets 12. (1) Where street works have been executed to the satisfaction of the local authority under this Part in respect of a private street, which is not less than forty feet wide, then on the request— (a) in the case of street works executed under section 11, of the several frontagers listed in the final apportionment as together have an annual value of more than fifty per centum of the total annual value of the premises so listed; or (b) in any other case, of the several frontagers of such private street or part of a private street as together have an annual value of more than fifty per centum of the total annual value of the premises fronting on, adjoining, abutting on or (though not actually so fronting, adjoining or abutting) adjacent or accessible to such private street or part of the private street, as the case may be, demanding that the private street or part o f the private street be declared a public street, the local authority shall declare the same to be a public street and such street shall thereupon become a public street and forever afterwards be maintained by the local authority. (2) The declaration shall be published in such manner as the local authority thinks fit. Private streets may be declared public streets 13. (1) If any street, not being a public street, is levelled, channeled and drained, and either paved, metalled or flagged to the sati sfaction of the local authority, it may, whether at the request of the frontagers or otherwise, if it thinks fit, declare that at the expiration of one month from the date thereof the said street shall become a public street. (2) Notwithstanding subsection (1) the local authority may require the frontagers to provide lighting for the street to the satisfaction of the 

32 Laws of Malaysia ACT 133 local authority as a condition precedent to the declaration under subsection (1). (3) A copy of the intention to declare such street as a public street shall be forthwith posted up in some prominent part of the said street. (4) At the expiration of the said period, unless the frontagers or such frontagers having the greater part in the annual value have, by notice to the local authority in writing under their hands, objected thereto, the said street shall become a public street and forever afterwards be maintained by the local authority. (5) After considering the objections or if there is no objection after the expiration of the said period the local authority shall declare the street as a public street. Widening of private streets 14. (1) Whenever the local authority decides that it is necessary to widen, open, enlarge or otherwise improve any private street or any part of a private street, the local authority shall prepare a plan showing the premises which will be acquired for the purpose of effecting such widening, opening, enlarging or otherwise improving the street: Provided that any acquisition of premises shall be in accordance with the law relating to the compulsory acquisition of land. Acquisition of whole building if part rendered useless (2) Where the acquisition under this section of any portion of a building affixed to a holding renders useless t he remainder of such building, the State Authority shall, if the owner so requires, acquire the remainder of the holding of which such building forms a part. 

Street, Drainage and Building 33 Acquisition of whole holding in certain circumstances (3) Where the acquisition under th is section of any portion of a holding having no building affixed to that portion or to the remainder of the holding, would render useless as a building site the remainder of the holding the State Authority shall, if the owner so requires, acquire the remainder of the holding. (4) The cost of acquisition under this section may be recovered from the developers or frontagers or both. Owner to repay local authority cost of acquisition (5) If it is to be recovered from the frontagers it shall be apportioned among the persons who are frontagers of such street at the time of completion of such widening, opening, enlarging or other improvement and the sums apportioned shall be recoverable as hereinafter provided from such persons by the local authority. Factors to be taken into consideration for apportionment (6) In apportioning the cost thereof among the frontagers or developers, the local authority may take into consideration any or all of the following factors: (a) the frontage of their respective premises; (b) the area of their respective premises; (c) the degree of benefit to be derived by those premises from the widening of the street; (d) the amount and value of street works already executed by any frontager or developer; (e) the cost of premises voluntarily surrendered by the owners to the local authority; and 

34 Laws of Malaysia ACT 133 (f) any other matters which in the opinion of the local authority are relevant and proper to be considered. (7) The frontagers or developers affected by the apportionment may within one month of the receipt of the notice to pay the amount appeal to the State Authority whose decision shall be final. (8) Pending the decision of the State Authority, the frontage or developer shall be bound to pay the sum first and if the decision of the State Authority is in favour of the appellant, the local authority shall remit such sum or part of such sum as the case may be. (9) For the purpose of subsections (1), (2) and (3) in relation to the Federal Territory references to the State Authority shall be construed as references to the Government of the Federation. (10) For the purpose of this section “developer” means the developer of lands belonging to persons who would be the frontagers. Repair of private streets 15. (1) Where any private street or any part thereof is in a dangerous or defective condition, the local authority may, by notice in writing, require— (a) the developer; (b) the frontagers of such street; or (c) any other person who, in the opinion of the local authority, was responsible for causing the street to be in a dangerous or defective condition, to cause such street to be properly repaired and amended within such time as may be prescribed in such notice and may in such notice specify the date before which such work shall be commenced. 

Street, Drainage and Building 35 (2) If any frontager or developer or any other person fails to comply with the requirements of such notice, the local authority may itself cause the work to be done and such frontager or such other person shall pay to the local authority the cost a nd expense thereof as apportioned by the local authority: Provided that if such frontager or developer or such other person fails to commence such work before the date specified under subsection (1), the local authority may in its discretion, notwithstanding that the period stated in the notice for the completion of the work has not yet expired, itself cause the work to be done and recover the cost and expense thereof in the manner hereinafter provided. (3) If any frontager or developer or any other person is dissatisfied with the apportionment of costs, he may within one month from the date of receipt of the notice appeal to the State Authority whose decision thereon shall be final and shall not be subject to any appeal in any court. (4) Notwithstanding subsections (1) and (2), the local authority may, in its discretion, and so far as the funds at its disposal will admit, execute at its own expense street works on any private street or any part thereof as may be deemed necessary for or conducive to the public safety, health, convenience or comfort: Provided that the execution of such street works at the expense of the local authority shall not affect the liability of such frontagers or developers or any other persons under subsections (1) and (2). (5) A certificate of the local authority stating that it is of the opinion that such person named in such certificate was responsible for causing a private street or part thereof to be in a dangerous or defective condition shall be prima facie evidence of such facts for the purpose of any proceedings for the recovery of the cost and expense of repairing such private street. (6) For the purpose of this section “developer” means the developer of lands belonging to persons who would be the frontagers. 

36 Laws of Malaysia ACT 133 Notice on person causing private street to be in a dangerous or defective condition 16. (1) Where the local authority is of the opinion that any frontager, developer or any other person is responsible for causing a private street or any part thereof to be in a dangerous or defective condition it may, by notice, require him not to make further use of the private street for the purpose of transporting any matter, material or thing, or prohibit the use of the road by specified class of vehicles, until he deposits with the local authority such sum as the local authority may specify. (2) The local authority shall in specifying the sum to be deposited with the local authority under subsection (1) have regard to the cost and expense that woul d have to be incurred if it should cause the repairs to be done. (3) Any frontager, developer or any other person who fails to comply with the notice shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding five thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term which may extend to twelve months or to both. (4) The certificate of the local authority stating that it is of the opinion that such frontager, developer or such other person named in such certificate was responsible for causing a private stree t or part thereof to be in a dangerous or defective condition shall be prima facie evidence of such facts for the purposes of any prosecution under this section. Payments to be made before erection of buildings in respect of street works 17. (1) Subject to this section— (a) where any building which is to be erected will have frontage on a private street in respect of which the local authority may be able to exercise its powers under the provisions of section 11 to require street works to be executed or to execute street works on its own; or 

Street, Drainage and Building 37 (b) in any case where an application is required, under the provisions of section 9, for the making of a new street, no work shall be commenced or done for the purpose of erecting such buildings, unless— (aa) the person erecting the building has deposited with the local authority such sum, if any, as may be required to be deposited in accordance with an order made under section 18; or (bb) the deposit in respect of the erection of such building or class of buildings has been exempted under any order made by the State Authority under subsection (8): Provided that such person may, if the local authority so agrees, instead of making a deposit of a sum of money give a security to the satisfaction of the local authority. (2) If any work for the erection of any new building is commenced in contravention of subsection (1), the local authority shall serve a notice in writing upon the person who, in the opinion of the local authority, is responsible fo r the commencement of any such work, or post a notice at the site of the erection of the new building, requiring such person and any other person to cease building operation forthwith and the building operation shall not resume unless the requirements under subsection (1) have been complied with. (3) If the person served with the notice under subsection (2) claims that he is not the person responsible for the commencement of any such work, he shall, within seven days of service of the notice on him, lodge his disclaimer of responsibility with the local authority. (4) If any work for the erection of any new building is commenced in contravention of subsection (1) the person who is responsible for the commencement of such work shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding five thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding twelve months or to both. 

38 Laws of Malaysia ACT 133 (5) Any person who fails to comply with any notice under subsection (2) shall in addition to any fine imposed under subsection (4) be liable to a further fine not exceeding two hundred and fifty ringgit for every day during which such notice was not complied with. (6) Where any person has been convicted of an offence under subsection (4) or (5) or both and the erection of the building has been completed, the court before which such person is convicted may, in addition to such fine or imprisonment that it may impose under subsection (4) or (5) or both, order him to deposit any amount that he would have been required to deposit under section 18, and such amount may be recovered according to the law for the time being in force for the recovery of fines. (7) A certificate of the local authority stating that it is of the opinion— (a) that the person named in such certifi cate is responsible for the commencement of any work for the erection of any new buildings; or (b) that any new building in respect of which a prosecution had been instituted in regard to the commencement of any work, for contravening subsection (1), has been completed, shall be prima facie evidence of such facts for the purposes of any prosecution under this section. (8) The State Authority may by order in writing exempt any building or class of buildings from the provisions of subsection (1). Determination of the amount to be deposited and the date of completion 18. (1) Any person who intends to commence any work for the erection of any new building shall unless exempted apply to the local authority for an order from the local authority specifying the amount 

Street, Drainage and Building 39 required to be deposited for street works and the date on or before which such street works shall be completed. (2) The person applying for such an order shall within fourteen days of service of the order on him deposit with the local authority the sum stated in the order or give the security. (3) In making the order the local authority shall have regard to the amount that would be expended by it if it executed the street works under this Act. (4) Any person who is dissatisfied with such order shall, within ten days of the service of the order on him, appeal to the State Authority whose decision thereon shall be final and shall not be subject to any appeal in any court. Local authority may execute and cause to be properly carried out street works 19. (1) If street works are not commenced after the commencement of building operations or are not executed to the satisfaction of the local authority, in any case where a deposit has been made or security given under subsection 18( 2), the local authority may, at any time after giving notice of its intention to do so execute or cause the street works to be properly carried out. (2) The costs of the execution of the street works or of causing the street works to be properly carr ied out by the local authority shall be recovered from the deposit made or security given under subsection 18(2). Refund of deposit when street works have been completed 20. (1) Where a deposit has been made or security given under subsection 18(2) a nd street works have been carried out to the satisfaction of the local authority, the local authority shall refund to the 

40 Laws of Malaysia ACT 133 person who made such deposit or given such security the whole or part of such deposit or security. (2) The local authority may r etain the deposit or security or any part of such deposit or security if, it is of the opinion that— (a) the street works have not been executed properly; (b) the building operations, in regard to the erection of any building which have not been commenced or com pleted, would require further street works to be executed; or (c) such deposit or security is required for a period of maintenance, which period shall not exceed twelve months. (3) In this section and in section 19 “building operations” means such works as are carried out for the erection of any new building including works which are preparatory to the erection of such new building. Refund of deposit when building operations are not commenced 21. (1) Any person who has made a deposit or given a security under subsection 18(2) and who subsequently decides not to proceed with the erection of any building, without having commenced any building operations, shall serve the local authority notice of this intention not to proceed with the erection of such building. (2) The local authority shall, upon receipt of such notice, cancel the approval of the plans and specifications in respect of such proposed building. (3) The local authority shall refund the deposit or part thereof or return such security or part thereof as it may determine. 

Street, Drainage and Building 41 Preparation of scheme for building 22. (1) Where the local authority has reason to believe that any land is likely to be used for building purposes, it may prepare a scheme consistent with any plans made unde r any law relating to town and country planning, showing the streets, back -lanes and open spaces which it deems necessary to secure proper sanitary conditions, amenity and convenience in connection with the laying out and the use of such land and of any neighbouring lands. (2) The local authority shall as soon as the scheme is prepared publish a public notice of the preparation of the scheme in the Gazette and in such local newspaper or newspapers as the local authority may determine, giving particulars of place where copies of the scheme may be inspected, inviting objections in writing from any person with respect to the scheme and stating the period (which shall not be less than one month) within which such objections may be made. (3) If no objection is received within the period in which objections may be made the local authority shall apply to the State Authority for an order that the scheme be confirmed. (4) Where there is any objection the local authority shall, after the expiry of the period within which such objection may be received, consider such objection and may in this connection hear any person who in filing the objection has requested to be heard. (5) The local authority shall after considering the objection submit to the State Authority its scheme whether modified or otherwise and may enter its reasons for refusing to modify or for modifying in the manner that it did. Order may be made with conditions (6) The State Authority may by order confirm the scheme submitted by the local authority under subsection (3) or (5) and may, in confirming the scheme, modify the scheme or impose such conditions as the State Authority thinks fit. 

42 Laws of Malaysia ACT 133 State Authority may modify scheme (7) The State Authority may, on the application of either the owner of the land affected or the local authority at any time after any scheme has been confirmed under subsection (6) but only after giving every owner or reputed owner of any property which in its opinion is affected by such modification and the local authority an opportunity to be heard either in person or by counsel, modify such scheme or any part thereof. Effect of plan forming part of scheme (8) Any plan forming part of any scheme made under this section shall, for the purposes o f section 70, have the same effect as a plan approved by the local authority under that section: Provided that the duty imposed by the scheme shall not attach to any person unless and until he submits a plan for the erection of a building on some part of the land comprised in the plan under section 70. Regular line of street may be prescribed 23. (1) The local authority may, with the sanction of the State Authority, prescribe a line on each side of a public street within which, except under section 34 no portion of any building abutting on the said street shall, after such line has been prescribed, be constructed. (2) A line so prescribed shall be called “the regular line of the street”. Local authority in certain cases may take possession of land within the regular line of street 24. (1) When any building or any part of a building which lies within the regular line of the street falls down or is burned down or is taken down the local authority may take possession of the portion of land within the regular line of the street that was occupied by the said building and, if necessary, clear the same. 

Street, Drainage and Building 43 (2) If any land, whether open or enclosed, lies within the regular line of the street and is not occupied by a house, or if a platform, verandah, step or some other structure external to a house abutting on a public street or a portion of a platform, verandah, step or other such structure is within the regular line of the street, the local authority may, after giving to the owner of the land o r building not less than seven clear days’ notice in writing of its intention to do so, take possession of the said land with its enclosing wall, hedge or fence, if any, or of the said platform, verandah, step or such other structure and, if necessary, clear the same. Land taken to form part of street (3) Land so taken possession of under this section shall be acquired by the State Authority at the request of the local authority in accordance with any law relating to the compulsory acquisition of land and when acquired shall be deemed to be a part of the public street. (4) For the purpose of subsection (3), in relation to the Federal Territory reference to the State Authority shall be construed as reference to the Government of the Federation. Provision of footways, etc. 25. (1) Wherever there is a frontage to the public street vacant of houses to a depth of four feet or more, lying between arcades or public footways or between such buildings and another street, the local authority may by notice in writing, require the owner or owners of such vacant frontage or the owners of the several frontages making up the same forthwith to allow without compensation a footway of a width of seven feet or equal to the vacant depth of the frontage whicheve r is less, to be made for the use of the public along the said frontage, and, if necessary for this purpose, to set back any wall, fence, paling, hedge or other similar erection separating his or their land from the public street to a distance not exceeding seven feet from the edge of the street within three months from the date of the notice. 

44 Laws of Malaysia ACT 133 (2) The cost of constructing and maintaining any footway proposed to be made under the powers given in this section, as well as the cost of setting back any suc h erection as aforesaid, shall be borne by the local authority and the notice or notices required to be given shall contain a specification of the work required to be done and the materials to be used and an offer by the local authority to pay such sum as may be specified therein as being the cost of carrying out such work. Who to execute work (3) On receipt of the notice the owner or owners may either execute the work as regards their respective frontages or require the local authority to do so, and, where any owner executing such work fails to complete the work within the time specified in the notice, the local authority may enter upon his land and carry out the work. Plan to be delivered (4) In every case where a footway is made under this section, the local authority shall deliver to each owner of the land a plan showing the land taken for such footway and a statement to the effect that the land has been taken under this section for use as a public footway, subject nevertheless to the righ t of each owner and his successors in title at any time to build in such manner and to such extent as he would have been entitled to build if the land had not been taken for use as a public footway. Local authority may put up lamp posts and lamps 26. (1) The local authority may cause lamp irons, lamp posts or other lighting apparatus to be put up or fixed upon or against the walls or palisades of any building or enclosure, doing as little damage as is practicable thereto, or to be put up or erected in such other manner within any street, road or place as it deems proper and may cause such number of lamps of such sizes and sorts to be provided and affixed and put on such lamp irons and lamp posts as are necessary for lighting all 

Street, Drainage and Building 45 or any of such streets, roads and places and cause the same to be lighted during such hours as are necessary. Troughs and pipes to be fixed (2) The owner of every house or building shall, within twenty-one days after the service of notice from the local authority to that effect, put up and keep in good condition proper troughs, gutters and pipes for receiving and carrying the water from the roof and other part of such house or building and for discharging the same in such manner as the local authority may direct so that it shall not fall upon persons passing along the street or enter any sewer. (3) If the notice is not complied with the local authority at any time after the expiration of the time so specified may cause the work to be done and the cost and expenses of so doing shall be paid to the local authority by the owner in default. Situation of water pipes, etc., to be altered at the expense of the local authority 27. (1) If the local authority deems it necessary for the purposes of this Act to raise, sink, l ower or otherwise alter the situation of any water pipe or other waterworks, electric lighting cable or main telegraph wire or other electric lighting apparatus or telegraph apparatus laid in any street, it may, by notice in writing, require the person or authority, to whom any such pipes, works, cables, mains or apparatus belong or under whose control they are, to cause forthwith, or as soon as conveniently may be, any such pipes, works, cables, mains or apparatus to be raised, sunk, lowered or otherwise altered in position in such manner as it directs: Provided that such alteration is not such as to permanently injure such works, cables, mains or apparatus or to prevent the water from flowing as freely and conveniently as before. 

46 Laws of Malaysia ACT 133 (2) The expenses attending such raising, sinking, lowering or altering, and reasonable compensation for the damage done thereby, may be paid by the local authority. (3) If the person or authority to whom any such pipes, works, mains, cables or apparatus belong, or u nder whose control they are, does not proceed forthwith, or as soon as conveniently may be, after the receipt of such notice to cause the same to be raised, sunk, lowered or altered in the manner required by such notice, a Magistrate’s Court shall, on the application of the local authority, issue a mandatory order for the execution of the necessary work. Where road is injured by excavation local authority may repair and recover expenses 28. (1) If the roadway, drain or verandah way in or adjoining any public street is damaged by or in consequence of any excavation on land adjoining such roadway, drain or verandah -way the local authority may repair and make good the damage done. (2) All costs and charges arising therefrom shall be paid to the local authority by the owner of the land on which the excavation has been made. Names of streets 29. (1) The local authority may, subject to the approval of the State Authority, determine the name by which any street shall be known and may alter the name of any street or part of a street. (2) The local authority may cause the name of any street to be painted, or otherwise marked, in a conspicuous position on any house, building or erection in or near such street and from time to time alter or renew such inscription of the name of any street, if the name of the street is altered or such inscription becomes illegible or damaged. (3) Any person who destroys, pulls down, defaces, covers or conceals any inscription of the name of a street which has la wfully 

Street, Drainage and Building 47 been set up, or sets up in any street any other name different from the name lawfully given to such street, shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding five hundred ringgit. Designation of fire hydrants 30. (1) The local authority may cause to be affixed on a conspicuous part of any house or building a plate indicating the position of the nearest fire hydrant and may place fire alarms, electric or otherwise, at convenient places in the streets. Penalty (2) Any person who destro ys, pulls down, defaces, covers or conceals any such plate shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding five hundred ringgit. Numbers on houses 31. (1) The local authority shall in its discretion allot a number to any house or building and ma y fix a mark displaying such number in a conspicuous place on the outside of any house or building or at the entrance of the enclosure fronting the street, and may from time to time change such number and replace or refix any mark displaying such number. Penalty for destroying (2) Any person who destroys, pulls down, defaces, covers or conceals any such mark shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding five hundred ringgit. (3) The owner and occupier of such house or building shall protect such number. 

48 Laws of Malaysia ACT 133 (4) The expense of replacing or refixing any such number which has been destroyed, pulled down, defaced, covered or concealed shall be paid by the occupier or, if the house or building is unoccupied, by the owner, and shall be recoverable in the manner hereinafter provided. Doors not to open outwards 32. (1) All doors, gates, bars and ground -floor windows opening upon any street shall be hung or placed so as not to open outwards except when the same are hung or placed in such m anner as, in the judgment of the local authority, to cause no obstruction in any such street. (2) If any door, gate, bar or window is hung or placed so as to open outwards on any such street, the owner of the premises to which the same is attached sh all, within fourteen days after the service of such notice from the local authority to that effect, cause the same to be altered so as not to open outwards. Projections from houses not to be allowed 33. (1) The local authority may give notice in writi ng to the owner or occupier of any house or building to remove or alter any projection, encroachment or obstruction which has been or may be erected or placed against or in front of such house or building, if the same overhangs or juts into or in any way p rojects into or encroaches upon or is an obstruction to the safe and convenient passage along any public street or obstructs or projects or encroaches into or upon any aqueduct, drain or sewer in such street. Same to be removed (2) Such owner or occ upier shall, within fourteen days or such extended time as the local authority may allow, after the service of such notice upon him, remove such projection, encroachment or obstruction or alter the same in such manner as therein directed. 

Street, Drainage and Building 49 Owner may recover expenses from occupier (3) In case such projection, encroachment or obstruction was made or put up by the occupier and the expenses of removing or altering the same have been paid by the owner, including a payment by the owner to the local authority when the work has been executed by it under the power hereinafter provided, then the owner shall be entitled to recover the reasonable expenses from the occupier. Occupier may recover expenses from owner (4) In case such projection, encroachment or obstruction was not made or put up by the occupier and the expenses of removing or altering the same have been paid by him, including a payment by him to the local authority when the work has been executed by it under the power hereinafter provided, then the occupier shall be entitled to deduct the reasonable expenses from the rent payable by him to the owner. Local authority to pay if erection lawful (5) If such projection, encroachment or obstruction has been lawfully made, the local authority shall pay the expenses of the removal or alteration thereof and make reasonable compensation to every person who suffers damage by such removal or alteration and, if any dispute arises touching the amount of such compensation, the same shall be ascertained in the manner hereinafter provided. Projecting verandahs, etc., may be made in streets not less than 40 feet wide 34. (1) The local authority may give permission in writing to owners of houses or buildings fronting, adjoining or abutting on public street of not less than forty feet in width to project open verandahs, balconies, sun shades, weather frames and signboards and may, in granting such permission, impose any condition it thinks fit. 

50 Laws of Malaysia ACT 133 (2) On breach of any such condition the local authori ty may give the owner or occupier notice to comply with such condition and, if such condition is not complied with within thirty days, a Magistrate’s Court shall, on the application of the local authority, make a mandatory order for the removal of such projection. Penalty (3) Any person who contravenes any of the conditions imposed under subsection (1) shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding one thousand ringgit and shall also be liable to a further fine not exceeding two hundred and fifty ringgit for every day during which the offence is continued after a notice to remedy the contravention has been served upon the owner or occupier. Sky-signs 35. (1) No sky-sign shall be erected in any place within the area of the local authority without the prior written permission of the local authority. (2) The local authority may give to the owner or occupier of any premises upon which any sky -sign is so erected notice in writing to remove the same, and the owner or occupier shall remove the same within fourteen days after service of such notice. Hedges and trees bordering streets to be trimmed 36. (1) The local authority may by notice in writing require the owner or occupier of any land to trim or prune the hedges thereon bordering any street so that they do not exceed seven feet in height from the level of the street, and, in the case of hedges within fifteen yards of a corner, four feet in height from the level of the street, and to cut and trim all trees or branches of trees overhanging any street. 

Street, Drainage and Building 51 (2) If the owner or occupier fails to comply with the notice within the period specified therein, the local authority may itself cause the work to be done and recover the cost and expenses thereof in the manner hereinafter provided. Prevention of grass fires 37. (1) Where the local authority is satisfied that any grass, or other vegetation whether growing or not is in a combustible state or likely to be dangerous to life or property in case it should become lighted, the local authority may by notice in writing require the owner or occupier of the land on which the same is growing or lying to remove the same from the land within a period specified by the notice. (2) If the notice is not complied with, the local authority at any time after the expiration of the specified period may, if it thinks fit, cause the work specified in the notice to be done, and the cost and expenses of so doing shall be paid to the local authority by the owner or occupier in default and shall be rec overable in the manner hereinafter provided. (3) If any fire occurs on any land in respect of which a notice under subsection (1) has been given after the time limited by such notice and before the notice has been fully complied with, the cost and expenses of extinguishing the fire incurred by the local authority shall be paid to it by the owner or occupier in default and shall be recoverable in the manner hereinafter provided and a certificate as to the amount of such cost and expenses by the local a uthority shall be conclusive evidence that such amount has been so incurred. Trees not to be planted within twelve feet of street 38. (1) No tree unless it is of a specie allowed by the local authority shall be planted within twelve feet of any street or back-lane. (2) Any person who plants any tree in contravention of this section shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding five hundred 

52 Laws of Malaysia ACT 133 ringgit, and the tree may be cut down or dug up by order of the local authority. Compensation in certain cases (3) Any tree standing within twelve feet of or overhanging any street or back-lane may be cut down or dug up by order of the local authority: Provided that where such tree being a fruit tree was planted before the street or back -lane was laid out or intended for a street or back- lane, the local authority shall make such compensation not exceeding fifty ringgit to the owner thereof as is just. Taking up pavement 39. (1) Any person who displaces, takes up or makes any alteration in the pavement, flags or other materials or in the fences or posts of any public street without the prior written permission of the local authority or without other lawful authority shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding fifty thousand ringgit. (2) Any person who damages or causes or permits any damage to be done to any street, footway, verandah way, works or property, or any part thereof, belonging to the local authority or along which the public has a right of passage, shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding one hundred thousand ringgit. (3) Notwithstanding subsections (1) and (2), the local authority may give notice in writing to direct the person to rectify the displacement, take up or make any alteration of the pavement, flags or other materials or in the fences or posts of the public street or execute such repairs on the damages done to the street, footway, verandah way, works or property, or any part thereof. (4) Any person who fails to comply with the directions referred to in subsection (3), the local authority at any time after the expiration of the time so specified in the notice may itself cause the work to be done and recover the cost and expenses thereof from such person. 

Street, Drainage and Building 53 Prohibition of laying rails, mains, pipes, etc., along streets 40. (1) No person shall lay or carry any line of rails, mains, pipes, conduits or electric lines along, through, across, over or under any street or any place laid out or intended for a street within any local authority area without the prior written permission of the local authority which permission may be granted or not at the discretion of the local authority and upon such terms as it thinks fit. Penalty (2) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding one thousand ringgit, and the local authority may remove the lines of rails, mains, pipes, conduits or electric lines at his expense. Precautions against accident. Bars to be erected across streets during repairs and lights placed at night 41. (1) The local authority, any person, or any other authority, shall, while carrying out the construction or repair of any street, back-lane, sewer or drain take proper precaution against accident by shoring up and protecting t he adjoining houses and causing such bars, chains or posts to be fixed across or in any street or road to prevent the passage of carriages, carts or other vehicles, while such works are carried on as to it seems proper and causing the works to be sufficiently lighted and guarded during the night. Penalty (2) Any person, or other authority (but not the local authority) who fails to comply with the provisions of subsection (1) shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding one thousand ringgit. (3) Any person who takes down, alters or removes any such bar, chain or post or extinguishes any such light without the authority or 

54 Laws of Malaysia ACT 133 consent of the local authority shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding one thousand ringgit. Materials not to be deposited without permission 42. (1) No person shall deposit any building materials or make a hole in any street or back lane without the prior written permission of the local authority. Fencing and lighting materials or hole (2) When such permission is granted to any person, he shall at his own expense until the materials are removed or the hole is filled up or otherwise made secure to the satisfaction of the local authority, cause such materials or such hole to be sufficiently fenced and enclosed and shall cause the area to be sufficiently lighted during the night. Penalty (3) Any person who deposits materials or makes a hole without such permission or having been granted permission, who fails to fence or enclose or light such materials or hole or who fails to remove such materials or fill up such hole or otherwise make it secure within such time as may be specified in the permission, shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding one thousand ringgit and shall also be liable to a further fine not exceeding one hundred ringgit for every day during which the offence is continued after twenty four hours notice in writing from the local authority to remove such materials or to fill up such hole. (4) The local authority may itself fence, enclose and light such materials or hole and may remove such material or fill up such hole or otherwise make it secure and all costs and expenses arising therefrom shall be paid to the local authority by the defaulting person. 

Street, Drainage and Building 55 Dangerous places to be repaired or enclosed 43. (1) If, in the opinion of the local authority, any tank, well, hole or other place is, due to want of sufficient repair, protection or enclosure or any other cause, dangerous to the public, it shall give notice in writing to the owner thereof to repair, protect or enclose the same forthwith so as to prevent danger therefrom. (2) Any owner who fails without reasonable cause to comply with such notice shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding one thousand ringgit, and the local authority may itself repair, protect or enclose the same. (3) All costs and expenses arising therefrom shall be paid to the local authority by the owner of the tank, well, hole or other place. Duty of owner or occupier to keep street clean 44. (1) The owner or the occupier of any premises abutting upon any private street to which they have access or the right of access from such premises shall cause such portion of the street as abuts on his premises and up to the centre thereof including the footways, to be properly swept and cleaned so far as is reasonably practicable and the dust, dirt, ashes, rubbish and filth of every sort found thereon to be collected and removed. Notice to owner or occupier to keep street clean (2) The local authority may by notice in writing require any person upon whom any duty is cast under subsection (1) to sweep and clean such street and to collect and remove the dust, dirt, ashes, rubbish and filth found thereon at such time or times as may be specified in such notice. Penalty for non-compliance (3) Any person to whom such notice is given who fails to comply with it shall be liable without further notice to a fine not exceeding one 

56 Laws of Malaysia ACT 133 hundred ringgit for each day during which such non-compliance continues, and the local authority may itself cause the work to be done and the owner or occupier shall pay to the local authority the cost and expense thereof. Local authority may contract for the work (4) The local authority may contract with any owner or occupier as aforesaid for sweeping and cleaning such street and for collecting and removing the dust, dirt, ashes and rubbish for such period as the local authority thinks fit. (5) The amount due by the contracting persons t o the local authority may be recovered in the manner hereinafter provided. Watering streets 45. The local authority shall, so far as it deems requisite for the public convenience, cause any street to be watered, and for that purpose the local authority may provide such works, engines and establishments as it thinks necessary. Obstruction 46. (1) Any person who— (a) builds, erects, sets up or maintains or permits to be built, erected or set up or maintained any wall, fence, rail, post or any accumulation of any substance, or other obstruction, in any public place; (b) without the prior written permission of the local authority covers over or obstructs any open drain or aqueduct along the side of any street; 

Street, Drainage and Building 57 (c) deposits or causes to be deposited any box, bale or package or merchandise, utensils, crockery, or other article or thing in any public place for a longer time than is necessary for loading or unloading such merchandise or article; (d) deposits or causes to be deposited any goods, article or thing used for or in connection with his trade in any public place; (e) deposits or causes to be deposited timber, scrap iron, derelict vehicles or any part thereof, waste materials or other article or thing in any public place; (f) deposits or causes to be deposited garden refuse, kitchen refuse or trade refuse or any other article or thing in any public place; or (g) causes or allows any vehicle to rest on any footway, shall be guilty of causing an obstruction and may be arrested without warrant by any police officer or any officer or employee of the local authority authorized in writing in that behalf by the local authority and taken before a Magistrate’s Court and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding five hundred ringgit, and in the case of a second or subsequent conviction to a fine not exceeding one thousand ringgit. Presumption (2) If it is shown in any case that any article or thing has been deposited in or upon any public place in proximity to any building or land in contravention of subsection (1) it shall be presumed unless the contrary is proved that the offence was committed by or by the permission of the occupier of such building or land. Power to remove obstruction (3) (a) The local authority may cause any such obstruction to be removed or may itself through its servants remove the same to a 

58 Laws of Malaysia ACT 133 suitable place, there to remain at the risk of the owner or person offending and may detain the same until the expenses of removal and detention are paid. (b) The local authority shall certify such expenses to the owner or the person offending and the certificate of the local authority shall be conclusive proof of the sum due. (c) Such sum shall be recoverable in the manner hereinafter provided. Temporary obstructions on occasions of festivals, etc. (4) Nothing herein shall prevent the local authority from allowing any temporary erections in any public place or the temporary use of any part of a public place on occasions of festivals and ceremonies. Depositing dirt on streets, etc. 47. (1) Any person who— (a) places, deposits or throws or causes or allows to be placed, deposited or thrown any dust, dirt, paper, ashes, carcase, refuse, boxes, barrels, bales or other article or thing in any public place; (b) keeps or leaves any article or thing whatsoever in any place where it or particles therefrom have passed or are likely to pass into any public place; (c) dries any article of food or other article or thing in any public place; (d) throws, places, spills or scatters any blood, brine, sw ill, noxious liquid or other offensive or filthy matter of any kind in such manner as to run or fall into any public place; 

Street, Drainage and Building 59 (e) drops, spills, or scatters any dirt, sand, earth, gravel, clay, loam, stone, grass, straw, shavings, sawdust, ashes, garden refuse, stable refuse, trade refuse, manure, garbage or any other thing or matter in any public place, whether from a moving or stationary vehicle or in any other manner; (f) sieves, shakes, cleans, beats or otherwise agitates any lime, ashes, sand, coal, hair, wast e paper, feathers or other substance in such manner that it is carried or likely to be carried by the wind to any public place; (g) throws or leaves behind any bottle, glass, can, food container, food wrapper, particles of food or any other article or thing in any public place; shall be guilty of an offence under this section and may be arrested without warrant by any police officer or by any officer or employee of the local authority authorized in writing in that behalf by the local authority and taken before a Magistrate’s Court and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding five hundred ringgit, and in the case of a second or subsequent conviction to a fine not exceeding one thousand ringgit. (2) Any person who, during the construction, alt eration or demolition of any building or erection or at any time whatsoever, (a) deposits, drops, leaves or places, or permits or causes to be deposited, dropped, left or placed in or onto any public place, any stone, cement, earth, sand, wood or other building material, thing or substance; or (b) fails to take reasonable precautions to present danger to the life, health or well-being of persons using any public place or any other person from flying dust or falling fragments or from any other material, thing or substance, shall be guilty of an offence under this section and may be arrested without warrant by any police officer or by any officer or employee of the local authority authorized in writing in that behalf by the local 

60 Laws of Malaysia ACT 133 authority and taken before a Magistrate’s Court and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding one thousand ringgit, and in the case of a second or subsequent conviction to a fine not exceeding two thousand ringgit. (3) For the purposes of paragraph (1)(e)— (a) where the thing or matter is dropped, split or scattered from a vehicle or drops or spills therefrom, the driver or person having charge or control of the vehicle shall be deemed to have committed the offence, unless the offence is committed by a person other than the driver or person having charge or control of the vehicle and the identity of the person who committed the offence can be established; and (b) where the driver of a motor vehicle is alleged or is suspected to be guilty of the offence— (i) the owner of the motor vehi cle shall give such information as may be required by a police officer or by an officer or employee of the local authority to give as to the identity and address of the person who was driving the said motor vehicle at or about the time of the alleged offen ce, and such other information as such police officer or such officer or employee of the local authority may require, and if he fails to do so within seven days of the date on which the information was required from him, he shall be guilty of an offence un der this section unless he proves, to the satisfaction of the Court, that he did not know and could not with reasonable diligence have ascertained the information required; and (ii) any other person who was or should have been in charge or in control of the motor vehicle shall, if so required as aforesaid, give any information which it is in his power to give, and which may lead to the identification of the driver, and if, within seven days 

Street, Drainage and Building 61 of the date on which the information was required from him, he fails to do so, he shall be guilty of an offence under this section. Presumption as to offender (4) (a) If in any case it is shown that any dust or other substance in this section mentioned has been deposited in any place in contravention of this section in close proximity to any building or land or that any such water or any offensive matter has run, drained or been thrown or put upon or into any street or drain in contravention of this section, it shall be presumed unless the contrary is proved that the offence was committed by or by the permission of the occupier of such building or land. (b) Where, any act or thing is done by or omitted to be done by an agent, servant or employee in the course of his duty as such, and such act or thing constitute s an offence under this section his principal, master or employer shall be liable for such offence as if such act or thing had been done or omitted to be done by him unless he can prove that it was done without his consent, connivance or knowledge and that he had taken reasonable precautions and exercise all due diligence to avoid the commission of such offence. Interpretation, sections 46 and 47 48. For the purposes of sections 46 and 47— “garden refuse” means the refuse from garden and agricultur al operations; “public place” means any street, park, garden, promenade, fountain, traffic island or circus, playground, river bank, whether above or below high water mark, place of a public resort or any place to which the public has access; 

62 Laws of Malaysia ACT 133 “stable refuse” means the dung or urine of horses, cattle, sheep, goats or swine, and the sweepings or refuse or drainage from any stables or cattle- sheds or places for keeping sheep, goats, swine or poultry; “trade refuse” means the refuse of any trade, manufacture or business or of any building operations; “vehicle” means any vehicle whether mechanically propelled or otherwise. PART III DRAINS 49. (Deleted by Act A867). Local authority to construct and maintain drains and watercourses 50. (1) The local authority may cause to be made and constructed and maintained surface and storm water drains, culverts, gutters and water-courses and if necessary the local authority may request the State Authority to acquire any property in accordance with any law relating to the compulsory acquisition of lands for the time being in force in the State where the property is situate or may carry them through, across or under any street or any place laid out as or intended for a street or any cellar or vault which is under any street and, after reasonable notice in writing in that behalf may carry them into, through or under any enclosed or other lands whatsoever, doing as little damage as may be and making full compensation for any damage done: Provided that no compensation shall be payable for any loss of business due to any works done under this section. (2) If any dispute arises touching the amount or apportionment of compensation, the same shall be settled in the manner hereinafter provided. 

Street, Drainage and Building 63 (3) For the purpose of subsection (1), in relation to the Federal Territory reference to the State Authority shall be construed as reference to the Government of the Federation. Local authority may recover cost of improving and making drains, etc. 51. (1) Where the local authority has made such main or has made such surface or storm water drains, culverts, gutters and water-courses, it may recover the cost of constructing and making such surface or storm water drains, culverts, gutters and watercourses, including the cost of acquiring any land or of any compensation paid in the course of such works. (2) Such cost shall be paid by the persons who are frontagers when the work is completed. (3) Notwithstanding subsection (2) the local authority m ay, with the approval of the State Authority, if satisfied that by any proposed development in any area existing surface or storm water drains, culverts, gutters or water-courses will have to be improved, require any developer in that area to deposit such sum as may be apportioned by the local authority as if such developer were a frontager before proceeding to develop that area: Provided that the developer may, if the local authority so agrees, instead of depositing a sum of money give a security to the satisfaction of the local authority. (4) In determining the respective amounts to be paid by the frontagers or developers, the local authority may take into consideration— (a) the area of their respective premises; (b) the use to which their respective premises will be put; 

64 Laws of Malaysia ACT 133 (c) the condition of the land, before, during and on completion of development; (d) the degree of benefit to be derived by those premises from the construction of such surface or storm water drains, culverts, gutters and water-courses; (e) where any section of such surface or storm water drains, culverts, gutters and water -courses has previously been constructed, the amount and value of such works executed by the frontager or developer; (f) the cost of the premises voluntarily surrendered by the owners to the local authority; and (g) any other matters which in the opinion of the local authority are relevant and proper to be considered. (5) If the frontager or developer is dissatisfied with such apportionment of costs, he may within a period of on e month of the receipt of the notice appeal to the State Authority whose decision shall be final and shall not be subject to any appeal or review in any court. Prohibition against building unless provision made for drains, etc., and compliance with any notice or order 52. (1) No person shall erect upon any premises any building, rebuild any building which has been pulled down to or below ground floor or occupy any building so newly built or rebuilt unless surface or storm water drains, culverts, gutters and water courses of such specification as may be prescribed by the local authority, are provided on such premises to carry off waters other than sewage. (2) If it appears to the local authority that a group or block of premises, whether contiguo us, adjacent, detached or semi -detached should be drained in combination, the local authority may order that the waters other than sewage from such group or block of premises shall be carried off by a combined operation. 

Street, Drainage and Building 65 (3) Where it appears to the l ocal authority that any such drains, culverts, gutters and water courses require altering, enlarging, repairing or cleansing, it may by notice served on the owner or owners of the premises require him to effect such works. (4) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) or fails to comply with the requirements of any notice or order shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding two thousand ringgit and shall also be liable to a further fine not exceeding one hundred ringgit for every day that the offence is continued after conviction. (5) Where any person being required under the foregoing subsections fails to provide such drains, gutters, culverts or water courses or fails to comply with any notice or order under this section, the local authority may enter into his premises and execute such works and the cost and expenses of such works shall be recoverable by the local authority in the manner hereinafter provided. Local authority to repair and alter and may discontinue surface and storm water drains, etc. 53. (1) The local authority shall maintain and keep in repair and, as it sees fit, enlarge, alter, arch over or otherwise improve all or any of the surface and storm water drains, culverts, gutters, and water-courses under the control of the local authority and may discontinue, close up or destroy such of them as it deems useless or unnecessary: Provided that the local authority shall before entering any private property for the purpose of carrying out any work under this subsection, give reasonable notice in writing in that behalf, and shall in carrying out such works do as little damage as may be and shall make full compensation for any damage done. Not to cause nuisance (2) The discontinuance, closing up or destruction of any of them shall be done as not to create a nuisance. 

66 Laws of Malaysia ACT 133 (3) If by reason thereof or of any such alteration as hereinbefore mentioned any person is deprived of the lawful use of any surface and storm water drains, culvert, gutter or water -course, the local authority shall with due diligence provide some other as effectual as the one of which he is so deprived. Cleansing and emptying surface and storm water drains, etc. 54. (1) The local authority shall cause the surface and storm water drains, c ulverts, gutters and water -courses under the control of the local authority to be so constructed, maintained and kept as not to be a nuisance or injurious to health and to be properly cleared, cleansed and emptied and, for the purpose of flushing, cleansing and emptying the same, it may construct and place, either above or under ground, such reservoirs, sluices, engines and other works as are necessary: Provided that the local authority shall, before entering any private property for the purpose of carr ying out any work under this subsection, give reasonable notice in writing in that behalf, and shall in carrying out such work do as little damage as may be and shall make full compensation for any damage done. (2) The local authority may, with the s anction of the State Authority, cause all or any of such surface and storm water drains, culverts, gutters and water -courses to communicate with and be emptied into the sea or other fit place, or may cause the refuse from the same to be conveyed by a prope r channel to the most convenient site for its deposit, and may sell or otherwise dispose of the said refuse for any agricultural or other purposes as are deemed expedient so that it shall not become a nuisance. Penalty for making unauthorized drains into canal or stream 55. (1) Any person who without the prior written permission of the local authority— 

Street, Drainage and Building 67 (a) makes or causes to be made any drain into any of the drains or into any canal or stream under the control of the local authority; (b) closes up stops or deviates any drains; shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding one thousand ringgit, and a Magistrate’s Court on the application of the local authority, shall make a mandatory order requiring the owner to demolish, alter, re-make or otherwise deal with such drain as the Court thinks fit. Water closets and trade effluent not to communicate with river, etc., without approval (2) No water closet or privy shall be allowed to communicate with any river, canal, stream, pond, lake, sea or with any public surface or storm water drain without the prior written permission of the local authority responsible for such drain or, in any other case, without the consent of the State Authority. (3) No trade effluent shall be discharged into or allow ed to communicate with any river, canal, stream, pond, lake, sea or with any public surface or storm water drain without the prior written permission of the local authority responsible for such drain or, in any other case, without the consent of the State Authority and the local authority or the State Authority may impose conditions to such permission. Penalty (4) Any person who sends, causes or permits to be discharged or sent into or along any river, canal, stream, pond, lake, sea or into or along any public surface or storm water drain any night soil or excrementitious matter contrary to subsection (2) or any trade effluent contrary to subsection (3) or contrary to any conditions imposed in the permission granted shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding 

68 Laws of Malaysia ACT 133 one thousand ringgit for each offence and a Magistrate’s Court shall on the application of the local authority or of the State Authority as the case may be make a mandatory order requiring the owner to take such steps as the Court think s fit to prevent any such communication or discharge. Rainwater pipes not to be used as soil pipes 56. (1) No pipe used for the carrying off of rainwater from any roof shall be used for the purpose of carrying off the soil or drainage from any privy or water-closet or any sullage water. (2) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding five hundred ringgit and shall also be liable to a further fine not exceeding one hundred ringgit for every day during which the offence is continued after conviction. Water pipes, etc., not to be used as ventilating shafts 57. (1) No water pipe, stack pipe or down spout used for conveying surface water from any premises shall be used or be permitted to serve or to act as a ventilating shaft to any drain or sewer. (2) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding five hundred ringgit and shall also be liable to a further fine not exceeding one hundred ringgit for every day during which the offence is continued after conviction. Interpretation 58. (1) In this section, unless there is something repugnant in the subject or context— “closet accommodation”, “sink accommodation” and “urinal accommodation” include respectively a receptacle for human excreta, for slops or waste house hold refuse or liquids and a receptacle for 

Street, Drainage and Building 69 urine, together, in each case, with the structure comprising such receptacle and the fittings and apparatus connected therewith; “bathroom accommodation” includes the bath or receptacle for water together with the structure or room or enclosure adapted or used for personal bathing or ablution and the fittings and apparatus thereof and therein or connected therewith; “water-closet” and “urinal” mean respectively closet and urinal accommodation used or adapted or intended to be used in connection with the water carriageway system and comprising provision for the flushing of the receptacle by means of a fresh water supply, and having proper communication with a sewer; “sink” and “bathroom” mean respectively sink and bathroom accommodation used or adapted or intended to be used in connection with a permanent water supply and having proper communication with a sewer; “a sufficie nt water supply and sewer” means a water supply and sewer which are sufficient and reasonably available for use in, or in connection with the efficient flushing and cleansing of and the efficient removal of excreta and urine from such number of proper and sufficient water-closets and urinals as in pursuance of this section may be required to be provided in any particular case or in connection with a sink or bathroom, and a sewer shall be deemed reasonably available for use which is within one hundred feet o f the boundary of the premises in which is situated the house in respect of which closet, sink, urinal or bathroom accommodation is to be provided. Supply of water to closets and urinals (2) Where there is a sufficient water supply and sewer the lo cal authority may by written direction to a submitting person, require such house or building to be provided with such number of proper and sufficient waterclosets, urinals, sinks, and bathrooms as in the circumstances of the case are in the opinion of the local authority 

70 Laws of Malaysia ACT 133 necessary and such water-closets, urinals, sinks, and bathrooms shall be communicated to the sewer. (3) Where there is a sufficient water supply but no sewer, the local authority may by written direction a submitting person , require such house or building to be provided with either— (a) such number of proper and sufficient water-closets, urinals, sinks and bathroom together with a system for the purification of sewage as and of a type which in the opinion of the local authority the circu mstances of the case render necessary and which complies with the *Water Services Industry Act 2006; or (b) such number of chemical closets of a type approved by the local authority as the local authority thinks fit. (4) Any person who fails to comply wi th any requirement of the local authority under subsection (2) or (3) shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding one thousand ringgit and shall also be liable to a further fine not exceeding one hundred ringgit for every day during which the offence is continued after conviction. Sufficient supply of closet, sink, accommodation, etc. (5) If the local authority is satisfied that insufficient closet, sink, urinal or bathroom accommodation has been provided at or in connection with any house or building, the local authority may, by written notice to the owner or owners of the house or building require such house or building to be provided with such proper and sufficient closet, sink, urinal and bathroom accommodation as in the opinion of the local authority is necessary. *NOTE—The Sewerage Services Act 1993 [Act 508] has been repealed by the Water Services Industry Act 2006 [ Act 655] in respect of its application to Peninsular Malaysia and the Federal Territories of Putrajaya and Labuan, which comes into operation on 1 January 2008–see subsection 185(1) of Act 655. 

Street, Drainage and Building 71 (6) If the owner or owners of such house or building fail to comply with any requirement of the local authority under subsection (5) the local authority may, at the expiration of a period of time which shall be specified in the notice and which period shall not be less than thirty days after the service of the notice, do the work required by the notice and may recover from the owner or owners the expenses incurred in so doing. When the owners must provide water-closets, etc. (7) Where there is a sufficient water supply and sewer, the local authority may by written notice require the owner or owners of any house or building to provide in or adjacent to such house or building such water-closets, sinks, urinals and ba throoms as in the opinion of the local authority are necessary. (8) If the owner or owners of such house or building fail to comply with any requirement of the local authority under subsection (7) the local authority may, at the expiration of a perio d of time which shall be specified in the notice and which period shall not be less than thirty days after the service of the notice, do the work required by the notice and may recover from the owner or owners the expenses incurred in so doing. (9) (Deleted by Act A867). Water pipe to be affixed to water-closets, etc., in certain houses (10) In the cases mentioned in subsections (5) and (7) where the house or building in question is not provided with a supply of water for domestic purposes the l ocal authority may provide, fix and install to or for the house or building, water pipes leading from the public water mains to the water -closets, urinals, sinks and bathrooms and provide, fix and install such water fittings as it shall think necessary and the expenses and cost of so doing shall be payable by and be recoverable from the owner or owners of the house or building. 

72 Laws of Malaysia ACT 133 (11) In any case where, in accordance with subsection (10), the local authority has provided, fixed and installed to or for a house or building water pipes and fittings the local authority may enter into a contract with the relevant authority in charge of the supply of water to such house or building and the occupier of such house or building shall pay to the local authority for the water consumed therein or thereat at such rate as the local authority shall at its discretion in writing order and the order or a copy thereof duly certified as a true copy of such order shall be served upon the occupier within one month of such order being made and save as provided above the occupier shall be deemed to be the consumer with respect to the supply of water, and such order may require the occupier to pay a minimum monthly charge as determined by the local authority whether or not the occupier consumes the water so provided during any month. Water-closet to be removed and replaced at the expense of owner (12) The local authority may at any time give notice in writing to the owner of any house or building in which any water -closet or any fittings or apparatus connected with any water -closet has been provided whether under subsection (2), (3), (5) or (7) or otherwise requiring such owner to remove any such water -closet or any fittings or apparatus connected therewith and to replace the same by another water-closet or by other fittings or apparatus at such owner’s expense, and if the owner of such house or building fails to comply with any requirement of the local authority under this subsection the local authority may at the expiration o f any period specified in the notice, which shall not be less than thirty days from the service thereof, do the work required by the notice and recover from the owner of such house or building the expense incurred in so doing. Water-closets, etc., to be maintained, etc., at the expense of owner (13) All water-closets, urinals, sinks and bath-waste water fittings including those provided under subsection (2), (3), (5) or (7) shall be maintained, repaired and renewed by the owner of the house or building at his expense: 

Street, Drainage and Building 73 Provided that the cost of any repairs or renewals rendered necessary by reason of any damage negligently or wilfully done to any water- closet, urinal, sink or bath -waste water fittings by the occupier of the house or building shall be recoverable by the owner from such occupier. Local authority may require drain, etc., to be put in good order (14) The local authority may by notice require the owner or owners of any building or land on which is situated any drain, urinal, water - closet, sink or bathroom which is not properly maintained or repaired or renewed to have such drain, urinal, water-closet, sink or bathroom to be repaired, or renewed or put in proper order and if the owner or owners fail to comply with the requirements of the local authority, the local authority may at the expiration of the period of time specified in the notice do the work required in the notice and may recover from the owner or owners the expenses incurred in so doing. Local authority may require removal or alteration of urinals 59. (1) If any urinal or other sanitary convenience opening on any street is so placed or constructed as to be a nuisance or offensive to public decency, the local authority may, by notice in writing, require the owner to remove or alter it to the satisfaction of the local authority and within such period as may be fixed by the local authority. Urinals or water-closets to be attached to refreshment houses, etc. (2) Where any public house, eating house, refreshment room , theatre, cinema, exhibition or place of public entertainment has no urinal or water-closet or insufficient urinals or water-closets belonging or attached thereto, the local authority may, by notice in writing, require the owner of the premises to provide and maintain thereon one or more suitable urinals or water-closets in a suitable position. 

74 Laws of Malaysia ACT 133 (3) Any owner who fails to comply with a notice under this section within such period as is specified therein shall be liable on conviction in respect of each offence to a fine not exceeding one thousand ringgit and shall also be liable to a further fine not exceeding one hundred ringgit for every day during which the offence is continued after expiry of the period specified in the notice. 60. (Deleted by Act A867). Ventilating pipes to sewers 61. (1) The local authority may erect or fix to any building such pipes as are necessary for the proper ventilation of the drains and sewers belonging to it. (2) Such pipes shall be erected so as not to occas ion any nuisance or inconvenience to such building or any building in the neighbourhood. 62. (Deleted by Act A867). 63. (Deleted by Act A867). 64. (Deleted by Act A867). PART IV BACK-LANES Local authority may acquire land for part of back-lane 65. (1) Where upon the submission of a plan relating to a building for the approval of the local authority it appears that the site thereof or any land set apart by the principal submitting person abuts upon any land capable of forming part of a back -lane, the local authority may, request the State Authority to acquire such last mentioned land, in 

Street, Drainage and Building 75 accordance with any law relating to the compulsory acquisition of land: Provided that no land shall be acquired under this subsection the acquisition of which would cause a severance of land from other land forming part of the same holding. Acquisition of whole building if part rendered useless (2) Where the acquisition under this section of any portion of a building affixed to a holding renders usel ess the remainder of such building, the State Authority shall, if the owner so requires, acquire the remainder of the holding of which such building forms a part. Acquisition of whole holding in certain circumstances (3) Where the acquisition under this section of any portion of a holding having no building affixed to that portion or to the remainder of the holding, would render useless as a building site the remainder of the holding the State Authority shall, if the owner so requires acquire the remainder of the holding. Compensation where setting apart causes severance (4) In cases where a setting apart would cause a severance of land belonging to the owner from other land forming part of the same holding, then if the lesser portion of the land so severed has been rendered useless as a building site on account of the severance the State Authority shall if the owner so requires acquire such lesser portion. State Authority may order back-lanes to be laid out 66. (1) The State Authority may at any time on the recommendation of the local authority, order that a back lane of a width not exceeding forty feet shall be laid out through any lands. 

76 Laws of Malaysia ACT 133 (2) The lands specified in the order made under subsection (1) may be acquired for purpose of providing such back -lane and the local authority may request the State Authority to acquire such lands in accordance with any law relating to the compulsory acquisition of land. Specification of additional land in the order (3) Any land which, in the opinion of the State Authority, may be required to be acquired by it under the provisions of subsection (4) or (5) or which abuts on or is near to the site of the back -lane may be specified in the order made under subsection (1) in addition to the land required for the site of the back-lane. Acquisition of whole building if part rendered useless (4) Where the acquisition under this section of any portion of a building affixed to a holding renders useless the remainder of such building, the State Authority shall, if the owner so requires, acquire the remainder of the holding of which such building forms a part. Acquisition of whole holding in certain circumstances (5) Where the acquisition under this section of any portion of a holding having no building affixed to that portion or to the remainder of the holding, would render useless as a building site the remainder of the holding, the State Authority shall, if the owner so requires, acquire the remainder of the holding. Local authority may recover cost of acquisition for and laying out or construction of back-lanes 67. (1) When the State Authority has acquired such lands as is necessary and the local authority has laid out or constructed a back lane, the local authority may recover the cost of acquiring such lands 

Street, Drainage and Building 77 and of laying out or constructing the back -lane from the frontagers or developers or both. (2) If such cost is to be paid by the frontagers it shall be paid by the persons who are frontagers when the work is completed. (3) In determining the respective amounts to be paid by such frontagers or developers, the local authority shall take into consideration— (a) the frontage of their respective premises to such back-lane; (b) the area of their respective premises; (c) the degree of benefit to be derived by those premises from the laying out or construction of such back-lane; (d) the cost of the premises voluntarily surrendered by the owners to the local authority; and (e) any other matters which in the opinion of the local authority are relevant and proper to be considered. (4) Any back-lane laid out or constructed by the local authority shall be maintained by the local authority. (5) For the purpose of subsections 65(2), (3), (4) and (5), section 66 and this section in relation to the Federal Territory, references to the State Authority shall be construed as references to the Government of the Federation. Declaration of back-lane as public street 68. Notwithstanding the provisions of this Part, the local authority may declare any back-lane to be a public street in accordance with the procedure laid down under section 13. 

78 Laws of Malaysia ACT 133 General provisions as to back-lanes 69. (1) In this Act and in by -laws made thereunder the expression “back-lane” includes every back -lane whether no w or hereafter existing and part thereof and any approach thereto and all land already or hereafter acquired or set apart for or laid out as a back lane and all channels, drains and appurtenances of a back-lane. (2) The local authority may at any time at its sole discretion close up or otherwise prevent ingress, egress or regress over any back-lane controlled by it or any part thereof either totally or conditionally. Removal of obstruction (3) No person shall erect or maintain or permit to be erected or maintained any obstruction in or over any back -lane, and the local authority may, where any such obstruction exists, take down and remove the same and the cost and expense of taking down or removing such obstruction may be recovered from the per son responsible for or who permitted its erection or maintenance in the manner hereinafter provided. PART V BUILDINGS Notice of new buildings 70. (1) No person shall erect any building without the prior written permission of the local authority. (2) Any person who intends to erect any building shall cause to be submitted by a principal submitting person or submitting person— (a) to the local authority such plans and specifications as may be required by any by-laws made under this Act; 

Street, Drainage and Building 79 (b) to the relev ant statutory authority such plans and specifications as may be required by any other written law; and (c) to the local authority or the relevant statutory authority a geotechnical report for erection involving slope with a gradient more than twenty -five degrees and total vertical height more than ten metres which the report shall be verified by the Accredited Checker registered with the Board of Engineers under the Registration of Engineers Act 1967 [Act 138]. (3) No plans for the erection of a building shall be approved— (a) if the building is to be erected on any holding abutting on or having access to any new street or proposed new street, until plans for such new street have been approved by the local authority under the provisions of this Act; (b) before any deposit, required to be made under the provisions of section 18 has been made or unless such building or class of buildings have been exempted from the provisions of subsection 17(1) by the State Authority; and (c) before any other conditions which t he local authority may deem necessary to impose have been complied with. Local authority may give directions (4) The local authority may give written directions to the principal submitting person or submitting person with regard to any of the following particulars: (a) compliance with this or any other Act or any by -laws, orders, rules or regulations made thereunder; 

80 Laws of Malaysia ACT 133 (b) the site of any building and the space to be left about any building to secure free admission of light and circulation of air and to facilitate scavenging; (c) the levels at which the foundation and lowest floor are to be laid; (d) the raising of the level of the site to form a stable and healthy foundation and the materials to be used in raising the same; (e) the line of frontage with neighbouring buildings, if the building abuts on or is within fifty feet of a public street; (f) the front elevation, and where the side elevation abuts on or is within fifty feet of a public street the side elevation; (g) the setting forward or back of building to the regular line of street as defined in section 23; (h) the class, design and appearance of the building is to be erected in a district, locality or street in which only buildings of a certain class, design or appearance may be erected; (i) the provision of a sufficient and pure water supply within a reasonable distance of the building; (j) the setting back of buildings to any building line; (k) the provision and construction of an arcade or paved footway for use of foot passengers along any portion of the building lot which abuts on a street. (5) The principal submitting person or submitting person to whom any written directions are given shall amend the plans and specifications accordingly and re -submit the amended plans and specifications within such period as the local authority may specify. 

Street, Drainage and Building 81 (6) Where such amended plans are not re -submitted within the specified period, or such extended period, they shall not be re- considered and shall be deemed to have been withdrawn but he may submit fresh plans and specifications. Buildings directed to be set forward (7) Where a building is directed to be set forward to a regular line of street, it shall be a sufficient compliance with such direction if a wall or fence of such materials and dimensions as may be approved by the local authority is erected at a distance from the line sufficient to provide any arcade or footway which may be required under this Act. Compensation where building directed to be set back (8) If the local authority directs the principal submitting person to set such building back to a regular line of street, the local authority may take possession of the land within the regular line of street and the land so taken possession of shall be acquired by the State Authority at the request of the local authority in accordance with any law relating to the compulsory acquisition of land and shall thenceforth be deemed a part of the public street. Notice of commencement of resumption of building operations (9) No person shall commence the erection of a building or resume the erection of a building in any case where the work of erection has been suspended for a continuous period exceeding three months unless— (a) such work is commenced or resumed, as the case may be, within twelve months from the date on which the plans and specifications of such building were approved by the local authority; and 

82 Laws of Malaysia ACT 133 (b) he has given the local authority four days’ notice in writing of his intention to commence or resume such work, as the case may be. (9A) Notwithstanding subsection (9), no person shall commence the erection of a building unless a copy of the detailed structural plans of the building together with a legible copy of its structural calculations and any other particulars, documents or reports as may be required by the local authority have been submitted. (10) For the purposes of paragraph (9) (a), “plans and specifications” means the plans and specifications originally approved by the local authority but does not include any amending plans or specifications subsequently approved by the local authority in connection therewith. (11) Any person who makes any alteration to any building otherwise than is provided for in this Act or by -laws made thereunder or without the prior written permission of the l ocal authority shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding twenty-five thousand ringgit and a Magistrate’s Court shall, on the application of the local authority, issue a mandatory order to alter the building in anyway or to demolish it. (12) Any person who uses any building or part of a building for a purpose other than which it was originally constructed for without the prior written permission from the local authority shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding twenty-five thous and ringgit and shall also be liable to a further fine not exceeding five hundred ringgit for every day during which the offence is continued after a notice to cease using for other purpose has been served on such person. (13) Any person who— (a) commences or resumes the erection of a building in contravention of subsection (9); (aa) commences the erection of a building in contravention of subsection (9A); 

Street, Drainage and Building 83 (b) deviates from any plan or specification approved by the local authority without the prior wr itten permission of the local authority; (c) erects a building in contravention of this Act or of any of the by-laws made thereunder; or (d) fails to comply with any lawful order or written direction of the local authority or with any term or condition attached by the local authority to any modification or waiver of any of the requirements of any by-law, shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding fifty thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding three years or to both and shall also b e liable to a further fine of one thousand ringgit for every day during which the offence is continued after conviction. (14) In any case where proceedings have not been instituted against any person who, by reason of failure to obtain prior permission from the local authority, has contravened subsection (13) such person shall, on the submission of plans and specifications to the local authority by the principal submitting person or submitting person in accordance with this Act, pay to the local authority a sum which shall be not less than five times but not exceeding twenty times the prescribed fees as the State Authority may prescribe, and in the event of plans and specifications being submitted without such payment, the local authority shall refuse to accept the same. (15) A Magistrate shall, on the application of the local authority or of a public officer authorized by the local authority in writing in that behalf, make a mandatory order requiring any person convicted of an offence under the provisions of subsection (13) to alter in any way or demolish the building. What constitutes erecting a building (16) For the purposes of this section and of section 75 a person shall be deemed to erect a building who— 

84 Laws of Malaysia ACT 133 (a) begins work on the site t hereof for or in respect of a new building; (b) adds to or alters any existing building in such a manner as to involve— (i) new foundations; or (ii) new or partly new or increased super-structure or roof on existing walls or existing foundations; (c) converts into a dw elling house any building not originally constructed for human habitation; (d) converts into more than one dwelling house a building originally constructed as one dwelling house; (e) converts to other purposes a house originally constructed as a dwelling house; (f) departs either before or after the completion of the building in any particular form from any plan or specification approved by the local authority at any time in respect of such building; (g) infringes the provisions of this Act or any by-laws relating to buildings; (h) renews or repairs any existing building in such a manner as to involve a renewal, reconstruction or erection of any portion of an outer or party wall to the extent of one storey in height whatever the material of such outer or party wall is; (i) demolishes and reconstructs or adds to a building in such a manner as to involve more than— (i) half the superficial area of walls and partitions; or 

Street, Drainage and Building 85 (ii) half the superficial area of floors (excluding ground floor)or roofs; or (j) constructs an additional storey or st oreys, or renews, reconstructs or erects an outer or party wall of the first, second or third storey counting from the ground, to the extent of one storey in height: Provided that, for the purposes of subsection (2) and for the purposes of section 75 a person who executes or does any of the works or things specified in subparagraph (b)(ii), paragraph (f), (g) or (h) shall not be deemed to erect a building. The expression “erection of a building” shall be construed accordingly. Works executed on the same building on two or more occasions within ten years may be deemed to be one reconstruction and aggregated for purposes of this definition. (17) (a) Where the erection of any building is commenced or carried out in respect of any building, it shall be presumed, until proved to the contrary, to have been commenced or carried out by the owner of the land whereon such building is erected and he shall be liable therefor. (b) Where a building is erected on vacant land and the person who actually e rected the building is not known or cannot be found in Malaysia, the building shall be deemed to have been erected by the owner of such land who shall be liable therefor. Approval of plans (18) If the local authority does not, within three calenda r months from the date of the submission of any plans under subsection (2) or from the date of the resubmission of such plans amended pursuant to subsection (5), approve, disapprove or make written requisition with regard thereto, the principal submitting person or submitting person 

86 Laws of Malaysia ACT 133 may apply to the State Authority, and the powers vested in the local authority under this section shall then vest in the State Authority. (19) Any plans, specifications, calculations, particulars, documents or reports required to be submitted under this section shall be prepared and certified by a principal submitting person or submitting person and signed by the owner or his authorized agent and the principal submitting person or submitting person. (20) No certificate of completion and compliance shall be issued except by a principal submitting person in accordance with the time, manner and procedure for the issuance thereof as prescribed by this Act or any by-laws made thereunder. (21) Before the issuance of a certificate of completion and compliance, it shall be the duties and responsibilities of the principal submitting person to— (a) supervise the erection of the building to ensure that the erection is in conformity with the approved plans and the requirements of the provisions of this Act or any by -laws made thereunder; (b) ensure that the building has been duly constructed and completed in conformity with the approved plans and the requirements of this Act or any by -laws made thereunder and that all technical cond itions imposed by the local authority has been duly complied with; and (c) ensure that the building is safe and fit for occupation. (22) Nothing contained in this Act shall affect the powers conferred on the local authority by this Act or any by -laws ma de thereunder pertaining to the erection and construction of a building for the purpose of ensuring that the erection and construction of such building are in conformity with the approved plans and the provisions of this Act or any by-law made thereunder. 

Street, Drainage and Building 87 (23) If it appears to the local authority that a non-compliance with the approved plans and provisions of this Act or any by -laws made thereunder by the principal submitting person has occurred in the erection and construction of the building, the local authority may issue to the principal submitting person— (a) a notice in writing, requiring compliance within the period specified in the notice, as the local authority thinks fit, in order that the noncompliance be rectified; and (b) a directive in writing t o withhold the issuance of the certificate of completion and compliance until such non - compliance has been rectified. (24) If the direction referred to in paragraph (23) (b) is not complied with by the principal submitting person, the local authority may itself cause any work to be executed or any measure to be taken if it considers such work or measure is necessary to rectify the noncompliance. (25) The cost for executing such work or taking such measure as referred to in subsection (24) shall b e borne by the owner of the building. (26) The amount of the costs to be so recovered by the local authority shall be certified by the local authority and the certificate of the local authority in this regard shall be conclusive proof of the matters stated therein and shall not be subject to any appeal or review in any court. (27) Any person who— (a) is not the principal submitting person but issues a certificate of completion and compliance; (b) issues a certificate of completion and compliance without the relevant forms as prescribed in any by-laws made under this Act; 

88 Laws of Malaysia ACT 133 (c) issues a certificate of completion and compliance in contravention of a direction given by the local authority to withhold such issuance pending rectification of any non - compliance; (d) knowingly makes or produces or causes to be made any false or fraudulent declaration, certificate, application or representation of any form prescribed in any by-laws made under this Act; (e) uses any forged, altered or counterfeit declaration, certificate, a pplication or representation of any form prescribed in any by-laws made under this Act knowing the declaration, certificate, application or representation have been forged, altered or counterfeited; or (f) occupies or permits to be occupied any building or any part thereof without a certificate of completion and compliance, shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding two hundred and fifty thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding ten years or to both. Earthworks 70A. (1) No pe rson shall commence or carry out or permit to be commenced or carried out any earthworks without having first submitted to the local authority plans and specifications in respect of the earthworks and obtained the approval of the local authority thereto. (2) Where the earthworks are to be commenced or carried out for the purpose of the construction of any building, street, drain, sewer, or embankment, or for the laying of any cable or pipe, or for the purpose of any other construction or work whatsoev er, the plans and specifications relating to such construction or work required to be submitted under this Act or any by -laws made thereunder shall be submitted to the local authority at the same time as the plans and specifications in respect of the earthworks. 

Street, Drainage and Building 89 (3) In granting the approval under subsection (1) the local authority may impose such conditions as it deems fit. (4) The local authority may, where it certifies that the safety of life or property is affected or is likely to be affected by any earthworks, order the immediate cessation of the whole or any part of the earthworks; the certificate of the local authority under this subsection shall be conclusive proof of the matters stated therein and shall not be questioned or be subject to any appeal or review in any court. (5) Without prejudice to subsection (4), the local authority may, from time to time, give such directions as it deems fit in respect of any earthworks, and the same shall be complied with by the person to whom such directions are given, and where such directions are not complied with the local authority may order the cessation of the whole or any part of the earthworks. (6) Notwithstanding subsections (4) and (5), the local authority may itself cause any work to be executed or any measure to be taken if it considers such work or measure necessary, and such work or measure may be in addition to or in place of anything required to be done under any direction or order given under subsection (4) or (5). (7) Where cessation of the earthworks has been ordered under this section, the local authority may permit the resumption thereof subject to compliance with such directions or conditions as may be specified by the local authority. (8) The local authority or any person authorized by it or on its behalf may enter upon any land, building or premises at any hour of the day or night without notice to the owner or occupier thereof for the purpose of executing any work under this section or for carrying out any inspection for the purpose of this section. (9) Any person who contravenes this section or fails to comply with any direction or order given under this section or does any act to obstruct in any manner whatsoever the entry or the execution of any work authorized to be effected or executed under this section by or on behalf of the local authority shall upon conviction be guilty of an 

90 Laws of Malaysia ACT 133 offence and shall be liable to imprisonment for a term not exceeding five years or to a fine not exceeding fifty thousand ringgit or to both, and in the case of a continuing offence to a fine which may extend to five hundred ringgit for everyday during which the offence is continued. (10) Where a person has been convicted of an offence under subsection (9) the local authority may revoke the approval of the plans and specifications given under subsection (1), and the person carrying out the earthworks shall upon receipt of the notice of such revocation forthwith cease the whole of the earthworks. (11) Where cessation of the earthworks has been ordered under subsection (4) or (5) or is required to be effected under subsection (10) and the order or requirement is not complied with, the local authority may summarily eject any person or remove any equipment, vehicle, machinery or any article whatsoever from the site of the earthworks to secure the cessation of the earthworks and for this purpose may seek the assistance of the police. (12) Where the local authority exercises its powers under subsection (6), (11) or (1 6), it may recover any expenses and costs incurred by it from the owner of the land on which the earthworks were carried out in the same manner as provided for the recovery of rates; the amount of the costs and expenses to be so recovered by the local authority shall be certified by the local authority and the certificate of the local authority in this regard shall be conclusive proof of the matters stated therein and shall not be subject to any appeal or review in any court. (13) This section shall n ot apply to earthworks commenced or carried out by or on behalf of the Government of Malaysia or a State Government. (14) Where any earthworks are commenced or carried out, the owner of the land on which such earthworks are commenced or carried out s hall be deemed to have permitted such earthworks to be commenced or carried out. 

Street, Drainage and Building 91 (15) The local authority or any person authorized by it or on its behalf shall not be subject to any action, claim, liabilities or demand whatsoever arising out of the e xercise of any of the powers conferred on the local authority under this section or under any by-laws made thereunder. (16) If any public street or any part thereof, or any building, or any structure, or any other property whatsoever belonging to the Government of Malaysia or any State Government or to the local authority is injured by or in consequence of any earthworks on any land, the local authority may repair and make good the damage done. (17) The local authority may make by-laws— (a) in respect of earthworks; (b) to provide for plans and specifications in respect of earthworks; (c) the submission of plans, specifications, particulars, documents and reports relating to earthworks, submitting persons and their duties and responsibilities, and the fo rm and nature or classification of such plans, specifications, particulars, documents and reports and the fees therefor; (d) to provide for the punishment for offences under the by- laws made under this section not exceeding a fine of two thousand ringgit and, in the case of a continuing offence, not exceeding a fine of one hundred ringgit for each day the offence is continued; (e) to provide for exemption from all or any of the provisions of this section in respect of earthworks of a minor or temporary character; and (f) generally to give effect to the objects and purposes of this section. 

92 Laws of Malaysia ACT 133 (18) In this section and in any by-laws made thereunder the word “earthworks” includes any act of excavation, levelling, filling with any material, piling, the construction of foundations, or felling of trees, on any land, or any other act of dealing with or disturbing any land. Order to review safety and stability in the course of erection of building 70B. (1) Where there are changes to the topography, features to the land or the surrounding area brought about by the erection of building or natural causes which are not in conformity with any approved plan in relation thereto, the local authority may carry out a visual inspection. (2) Where the local authority reasonably suspects there is a defect, deformation or deterioration in the structure of a building under erection which may likely result in the failure of the building, the local authority may issue to the owner of the building an order to review the safety and stability of— (a) the building; (b) the foundation of the building; and (c) the surroundings on which the erection of building is in progress. (3) The review shall be undertaken by a qualified person other than the submitting person who prepared and certified the plans, calculations, particulars, documents or reports submitted to the local authority before the commencement of erection of building. (4) The report of the review shall be submitted to the local authority within the period specified by the local authority. (5) The local authority may, after evaluating the report of the review— 

Street, Drainage and Building 93 (a) certify that the safety of life or property is affected or is likely to be affected by the erection of building; and (b) serve a notice in writing to the owner of th e building of its intention to issue an order for cessation of the erection of building. (6) The local authority shall inform the owner of the building of his right to object to its intention to issue an order for cessation of the erection of building, within fourteen days from the date of service of the notice in paragraph (5)(b), and if no objections are received within the period the order for cessation shall be issued with immediate effect. (7) If objections are received under subsection (6) the local authority shall, as soon as possible after the expiry of the period within which objections may be made, hear any person who has lodged an objection and thereafter decide whether— (a) an order for cessation of the erection of building shall be issued; or (b) directions under subsection (8) shall be given. (8) Without prejudice to its power under subsection (5) the local authority may, after evaluating the report of the review, give to any person written directions including the submission of a fresh or an amended plan in respect of the following: (a) the stabilization of slope; (b) the provision of additional drainage facilities; (c) the strengthening of existing retaining walls and the construction of new walls; (d) the provision of other additional features to support existing construction works; and 

94 Laws of Malaysia ACT 133 (e) such other matters as the local authority considers necessary, for the purpose of remedying any defect, deformation or deterioration in the structure of the building, removing any danger to life or property and ensuring safety and stability of the building, its foundation and surroundings and such directions shall be complied with within the period specified therein. (9) Where the directions given under subsection (8) are not complied with, the local authority may order the cessation of the whole or any part of the erection of building. (10) Where an order for cessation of the erection of building made under— (a) subsection (6); (b) paragraph (7)(a); or (c) subsection (9), whether in whole or in part, is not c omplied with, the local authority may summarily eject any person or remove any equipment, vehicle, machinery or article from the site where the building is being erected to secure the cessation of the erection of building and for this purpose may seek the assistance of the police. (11) Notwithstanding subsections (8), (9) and (10) the local authority may execute any work, take any measure or demolish a building under erection— (a) if it considers such work, measure or demolition necessary to prevent an imminent danger to life or property; or (b) in the case of non -compliance with any directions given under subsection (8), 

Street, Drainage and Building 95 and such work, measure or demolition may be in addition to or in place of anything required to be done under such directions and the local authority may recover all expenses reasonably incurred by it in doing so from the owner of the building. (12) The local authority or any person authorized by it or on its behalf may enter the site of a building under erection and the building under erection at any time without notice to the owner thereof to carry out an inspection or for any other purposes under this section. (13) Where— (a) the cessation of the erection of building— (i) has been ordered under subsection (6), paragraph (7)(a) or subsection (9), as the case may be; or (ii) has been secured under subsection (10); (b) the directions given under subsection (8) have been complied with; or (c) any remedial work has been executed or measure has been taken under subsection (11), the local authority may allow the resumption of the erection of building subject to compliance with such directions and conditions as it may specify. (14) The local authority may, without prejudice to its right to recover the expenses under section 104, refuse to allow the resumption of the erection of building under subsection (13) until all expenses reasonably incurred by it in securing the cessation of the erection of building, executing the work or taking the measure have been reimbursed by the owner of the building. (15) Any person who— 

96 Laws of Malaysia ACT 133 (a) fails to comply with any order, direction or condition given under this section; or (b) does any act to obstruct in any manner whatsoever the local authority or any person authorized by it or on its behalf in the execution of its or his powers under this section, shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding one hundred thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding five years or to both, and shall also be liable to a further fine not exceeding five hundred ringgit for every day during which the offence is continued after conviction. Revocation of approval of any plan, specification and permission 70C. Where a person has been convicted for an offence under subsection 70B(15), the local authority may revoke the approval of any plan and specification and permission given under this Act and he shall, upon receipt of the notice of such revocation, forthwith cease the whole of the erection of building. Inspection of erection of building at any stage and taking of sample for analysis 70D. (1) Nothing contained in this Act shall prevent the local authority or any person authorized by it or on its behalf from— (a) inspecting any erection of building at any stage; (b) giving a notice in writing of any deviation from the approved plan or specification or non-compliance with any provision of this Act which it or he may observe; and (c) ordering such deviation or non-compliance to be rectified. (2) The local authority or any person authorized by it or on its behalf may, if its or his duties so require, take reasonable samples of 

Street, Drainage and Building 97 any building material for analysis as it or he considers necessary, and such sample may be disposed off in such manner as it or he may direct. (3) No payment shall be made for any sample taken under subsection (2) but a receipt for any such sample shall be given. Penalty for failure of building or earthworks 71. Where any building or part of a building fails, whether in the course of construction or after completion, or where there is any failure in relation to any earthworks or part of any earthworks, whether in the course of the carrying out of the earthworks or after completion thereof, and the cause of such failure is due to any one or more of the following factors: (a) misconstruction or la ck of proper supervision during construction; (b) misdesign or miscalculation; or (c) misuse, of such building or part of such building, or of such earthworks or part of such earthworks, the person responsible for— (aa) such misconstruction or such lack of proper supervision; (bb) such misdesign or miscalculation; or (cc) such misuse, shall be liable on conv iction to a fine not exceeding five hundred thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding ten years or to both. 

98 Laws of Malaysia ACT 133 Demolition or removal of unauthorized building 72. (1) Where the local authority is satisfied that a building has been erected or is in the course of erection or is about to be erected in contravention of section 70 or, if such building has been erected prior to the coming into force of this Act in contravention of any law then in force relating to buildings and in respect of which building approval under any law was not given subsequently, the local authority may by notice served on the owner of the land require him to do an y one or more of the following acts: (a) to abstain from commencing or proceeding with the erection of such building; (b) to demolish such building within such time as the local authority may specify; and (c) to take steps as may be ordered by the local authority. (2) Where the owner is unable to demolish such building within the time specified in the notice, the owner may request the local authority to carry out the requirements of the notice. (3) No request by the owner made under subsection (2) shall absolve the owner from his liability under this section unless he makes the request within the time specified for him to demolish such building and unless within the same period of time he— (a) deposits with the local authority such sum which the local authority thinks is sufficient to cover the costs and expenses of— (i) demolishing such building; (ii) removal of any movable property found in such building; (iii) storage of such movable property; and 

Street, Drainage and Building 99 (iv) any other activities incidental to or arising out of subparagraphs (i),(ii) and (iii); (b) indemnifies and keeps indemnified the local authority against any claim, damage, loss, action or proceedings that may be brought against the local authority arising out of and incidental to subparagraphs (i), (ii), (iii) and (iv); and (c) notwithstanding any sum paid under paragraph (a), pays the local authority a further sum which may be prescribed by the State Authority, for relocation purposes. (4) Any person who fails to comply with the requirements of the notice shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding two hundred and fifty ringgit for every day that the offence is continued after expiry of the period specified in the notice. (5) Where the owner fails to comply with the requirement s of the notice, the local authority may do any or all of the acts required by the notice and notwithstanding the owner’s liability to pay any fine under subsection (4), the owner shall pay such sums to the local authority as may be required under subsecti on (3) and shall be deemed to have indemnified the local authority in carrying out the terms of the notice as if he had requested the local authority to do so. Notice before demolition (6) Where the building is to be demolished by the local authority , it shall give at least thirty days notice to the occupants of the building requiring them to vacate the building and the local authority may after the lapse of the period enter the building and remove any person or movable property found therein. (7) Any movable property removed pursuant to subsection (6) may be taken to a suitable place and there to remain at the risk of the owner and may within a period of one month from the date of the removal be claimed by any person who furnishes evidence to the satisfaction of 

100 Laws of Malaysia ACT 133 the local authority that he is the owner and if there be no claim shall be disposed of in the manner specified in section 116. (8) A certificate by the local authority stating the sum required to be paid by the owner under subsection (2) and (5) shall be conclusive proof of the sums due and shall not be subject to any appeal or review in any court. Penalty for letting out and sale of unauthorized building 73. (1) Any person who is not the owner of the premises and who sells or e nters into an agreement to sell a building which has been erected or is in the course of erection in contravention of section 70 shall be guilty of an offence under this Act and shall on conviction be liable to imprisonment for a term which shall not excee d two years or to a fine not exceeding ten thousand ringgit or to both. (2) Any person who erects or causes to be erected any building in contravention of section 70 shall, if such building is subsequently sold or agreed to be sold, be guilty of an o ffence under this Act and shall on conviction be liable to imprisonment for a term which shall not exceed two years and shall also be liable to a fine not exceeding ten thousand ringgit. (3) Any person who lets or enters into an agreement to let an unauthorized building for rent or any other consideration shall be guilty of an offence under this Act and shall be liable on conviction to a fine which shall not exceed one thousand ringgit. (4) The court before which a person is convicted for an off ence under subsection (1) or (2) may also order such person to refund the purchase money for the building to the purchaser together with such compensation as the court deems fit. Modification or waiver of by-laws 74. (1) The local authority may on rec eipt of an application in relation to any particular building or structure, and provided it is 

Street, Drainage and Building 101 satisfied that such waiver or modification as hereinafter mentioned will not render the building or structure unsafe, modify or waive, upon and subject to such t erms and conditions as it thinks fit, any of the requirements of any by-laws relating to the construction of buildings. (2) Any such application shall be made in writing to the local authority by or on behalf of the owner of the particular building or structure or of the particular part of such building or structure to which such application relates and shall state the nature and extent of and reasons for the proposed modification or waiver of such requirement and shall be accompanied by such plans, s ections elevations and particulars as may be required. Rights of owners of adjoining premises (3) If it appears to the local authority on receipt of any such application that the owner of any adjoining premises should be consulted the local authority shall serve upon such owner notice of the application informing him to make representations to the local authority within a specified period. (4) The local authority shall take into consideration the representations of any owners of adjoining prem ises and where the local authority decides to allow modification or waiver against the representations of any such owner, it shall submit its decision to the State Authority. (5) Unless the decision of the local authority is reversed or modified by t he State Authority within thirty days of its submission, the decision of the local authority shall be deemed to be confirmed. Land to be set apart for back-lane 75. (1) The local authority shall not approve any plan submitted pursuant to section 70 relating to a building unless— 

102 Laws of Malaysia ACT 133 (a) a back-lane if required by the local authority of such width not exceeding forty feet as may at the discretion of the local authority be required, is shown on the plan, or vacant land is shown on the plan to be set apart or acquired for a back- lane of such width as aforesaid, and the owner reimburses the local authority for any moneys at any time paid for the acquisition by any means of the portion of such back -lane or such vacant land to the centre thereof which abuts on the holding in respect of which the plan is submitted to the extent to which it so abuts; or (b) the owner sets apart a vacant strip of his land sufficient, with or without other land previously so set apart or acquired, to form a back-lane or part of a back-lane of such width not exceeding forty feet as is required by the local authority: Provided that where the owner sets apart a vacant strip of his land sufficient to form not less than one -half the width of that part of the back-lane which abuts on his land, the local authority may in its discretion in a particular case approve such plan. Situation of back-lane (2) The back lane shall, where the local authority so requires, be situated so as to conform with such line as is laid down therefor by the local authority and so as to communicate at each end thereof with the land set apart or to be set apart for a back-lane by, or acquired or to be acquired from, the owners of the properties on each side thereof, and when completed the same shall, wherever possible, open upon public streets at both ends, and shall in all cases be free from obstruction throughout. Non-approval of plan where building site does not abut on land available for a back-lane (3) Where upon the submission of a plan relating to a building for the approval of the local authority it appears that the site thereof does 

Street, Drainage and Building 103 not abut upon any land so situate as to be capable of being set apart for a back-lane in conformity with the line laid down therefor by the local authority, the local authority may refuse to approve the plan until the land situate between the site of the building and the line of the back - lane or intended back -lane immediately opposite such site has been added to the holding in respect whereof the plan has been submitted and the portion of the intended back-lane which abuts on such site so added to has been set apart or acquired for a back -lane and the owner has reimbursed the local authority in the manner and to the extent provided in paragraph (1)(a) and the other provisions of that subsection have been complied with. Acquisition of land between building site and line of back-lane (4) Where in any such case as is referred to in subsection (3) the owner requests the local authority in writing to have the land situa te between the site of the building and the line of the back -lane or intended back -lane immediately opposite such site and, if requisite, that portion of the intended back -lane which abuts on such site when added to in the manner described in subsection (3) acquired, the local authority shall request the State Authority to acquire such land and such portion of the intended back-lane for the purpose of the same respectively being added to the holding in respect whereof the plan has been submitted and forming part of the back-lane and shall notify the owner accordingly. (5) For the purpose of subsection (4), in relation to the Federal Territory reference to the State Authority shall be construed as reference to the Government of the Federation. Prohibition of building on insanitary ground 76. (1) No new building shall be erected on any ground which has been filled up with any matter impregnated with faecal, animal or vegetable matter or upon which any such matter has been deposited unless and until such matter has been properly removed by excavation or otherwise or has been rendered or become innocuous. 

104 Laws of Malaysia ACT 133 Penalty (2) Any person who does, causes or wilfully permits any act in contravention of this section shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding five hundred ringgit and shall also be liable to a further fine not exceeding one hundred ringgit for every day during which the offence is continued after conviction. Buildings over public sewers, private connection pipe, etc., not to be erected without consent of local authority 77. No building shall be erected over any public sewer, private connection pipe, public surface or storm water drain, culvert, water course, river or stream or any water main, electric cable or wire without the prior written permission of the local authority or the controlling statutory authority concerned as the case may be. Removal of roofs and walls made of combustible materials 78. (1) Any person who, being the owner of any building which external roof is or walls are made of grass, leaves, mats, attaps or other combustible materials and which is less than twenty-five feet from any other building separately occupied or from any street, does not remove such roof or walls, as the case may be, within ninety days after a notice to do so has been served on him, shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding one hundred ringgit for every day during which such default continues after service of notice. Renewal or repairing with combustible materials (2) Any person who after service of such notice issued under subsection (1) makes, renews or repairs any building with any combustible materials as are mentioned in subsection (1) or causes any such building to be so made, renewed or repaired shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding five hundred ringgit and shall also be liable to a further fine not exceeding one hundred ringgit for every 

Street, Drainage and Building 105 day he suffers or allows the same to remain after conviction, and a Magistrate’s Court shall, on the application of the local authority, make a mandatory order requiring the building to be pulled down. Erection of compartments, galleries, lofts, etc., in buildings 79. (1) No person shall erect or cause or permit to be erected in any building any partition, compartment, gallery, loft, roof, ceiling or other structure without having the prior written permission of the local authority. (2) In every such case the owner shall be presumed until proved to the contrary to have commenced or carried out such erection. Local authority may remove (3) The local authority, its agents or servants may enter any such building and remove any partition, compartment, gallery, loft, roof, ceiling or other structure which has been erected without the prior written permission of the local authority in which event the person in default or if the person in default is unknown or untraceable or even if traceable is unable to pay the expenses incurred, the owner shall pay to the local authority the costs and expenses of— (i) demolishing such structure; (ii) removal of the movable property found in the building at a rate which may be prescribed by the local authority for every trip made by wagon or transporting vehicle for the purpose of the removal and storage; (iii) storing the movable property at a rate which may be prescribed by the local authority if it is not claimed on the day the movable property is removed; (iv) any other activities incidental to or arising out of paragraphs (i), (ii) and (iii), 

106 Laws of Malaysia ACT 133 and shall be deemed to have indemnifi ed the local authority against any claim, damage, loss, action or proceeding that may be brought against the local authority including any cost and expenses arising out of and incidental to paragraphs (i), (ii), (iii) and (iv). (4) Without prejudice to subsection (3) any person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding five hundred ringgit and shall also be liable to a further fine not exceeding one hundred ringgit for every day during which the offence is continued after conviction. Movable shed not to be erected without permission 80. Any person who erects or causes or permits to be erected, keeps or permits to be kept on his land or the land which he occupies any movable shed or movable structure intend ed to act as a roof without the prior written permission of the local authority shall be guilty of an offence and shall on conviction be liable to a fine of one thousand ringgit and the Magistrate’s Court shall on application of the local authority, make a mandatory order requiring such person to remove such movable shed or structure. Local authority may cause drains to be made for premises which are not properly drained 81. (1) If any premises is at any time not drained of waters other than sewage to the satisfaction of the local authority by a sufficient drain or pipe communicating with some drain or some other place at which the local authority is empowered to drain waters other than sewage, and if there are such means of drainage within one hundred feet of the boundary of such premises, the local authority may give a notice in writing requiring the owner thereof to construct or lay for such premises a drain or pipe of such materials, of such size, at such level and with such fall as it may specify for the draining of such premises. 

Street, Drainage and Building 107 (2) If the owner fails to comply with such notice within thirty days from the date thereof, a Magistrate’s Court shall, on the application of the local authority, make a mandatory order requiring the owner to construct or lay such drain or pipe, or the local authority may carry out such works and the expenses incurred by the local authority in respect thereof if not forthwith paid by the owner, shall be recoverable in the manner hereinafter provided. Hoardings to be set up during building operations 82. (1) No person intending to build or take down any building or to alter or repair the outward part of any building, shall do so without the prior written permission of the local authority and without causing sufficient hoardings or fences to be put up in order to separate the building where such works are being carried on from any street or footway. (2) Where permission has been granted to any person to do any of the works stated in subsection (1), such person shall— (a) maintain such hoardings or fences as are required in subsection (1) in good condition and to the satisfaction of the local authority; (b) cause such hoardings or fences to be well lighted at night; and (c) remove such hoardings or fences or any scaffolding used in such works within such time as may be specified by the local authority. Penalty (3) Any such person who contravenes subsections (1) and (2) shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding two thousand ringgit and shall also be liable to a further fine not exceeding one hundred ringgit for every day during which the offence is continued after a 

108 Laws of Malaysia ACT 133 notice requiring him to comply with any of the provisions in subsection (1) or (2) has been served on him. Proviso (4) Where the local a uthority considers the use of a hoarding unnecessary or impracticable, it may give written permission that such building, taking down, alteration or repairs may be done without the erection of a hoarding or fence. Powers as regards building in ruinous and dangerous state 83. (1) If after conducting such inquiry as it thinks fit, the local authority is satisfied that any building or anything affixed thereon is in a ruinous state, likely to fall or is in any way dangerous to any person therein or foot pa ssengers on the streets adjoining such building, the local authority shall serve notice on the owner of such building requiring him to either repair the defects or demolish the building or anything affixed thereon within such period of time as the local authority may specify and the local authority may also require such owner to put up such hoardings or fences of such specifications and within such period of time as it may specify. (2) Notwithstanding any notice under subsection (1), if the local authority is satisfied that it is dangerous for any person to remain or reside inside such building, it may by notice require every occupier of and every lodger in such building to vacate the building within such period of time as it may specify. (3) If upon service of the notice the owner desires to repair, he shall not proceed to do so unless he has obtained planning approval to do so from the relevant authority in charge of town and country planning in the area where his building is situate. (4) Where planning approval has been granted, the owner shall not proceed to repair unless he has submitted such plans and specifications 

Street, Drainage and Building 109 showing the intended repairs and until such plans and specifications have been approved by the local authority. (5) Where the owner fails to put up hoardings or fences within the period of time specified in the notice or fails to put up hoardings or fences in accordance with the specifications of the local authority, the local authority may enter upon such premises wher e the building is situate and put up such hoardings or fences. (6) Where the owner is unable to demolish such building within the time specified in the notice, the owner may request the local authority to carry out the requirements of the notice. (7) No request by the owner made under subsection (6) shall absolve the owner from his liability under this section unless he makes the request within the time specified for him to demolish such building and unless within the same period of time he— (a) deposits with the local authority such sum which the local authority thinks is sufficient to cover the costs and expenses of— (i) demolishing such building; (ii) removal of any movable property found in such building; (iii) storage of such movable property; and (iv) any othe r activities incidental to or arising out of subparagraphs (i), (ii) and (iii); (b) indemnifies and keeps indemnified the local authority against any claim, damage, loss, action or proceedings that may be brought against the local authority arising out of and incidental to subparagraphs (i), (ii), (iii) and (iv); and (c) notwithstanding any sum paid under paragraph (a), pays the local authority a further sum which may be prescribed by the State Authority for relocation purposes. 

110 Laws of Malaysia ACT 133 (8) Any person who fails to comply with any of the requirements of the notice under subsection (1) or (2) shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding two hundred and fifty ringgit for every day that the offence is continued after the expiry of the period specified in the notice. (9) Where the owner fails to comply with the requirements of the notice, the local authority may do any or all of the acts required by the notice and notwithstanding the owner’s liability to pay any fine under subsection (8), the owner shall pay such sums to the local authority as may be required under subsection (7) and shall be deemed to have indemnified the local authority in carrying out the terms of the notice as if he had requested the local authority to do so. (10) A certificate by the local authority stating the sum required to be paid by the owner under subsections (5) and (9) shall be conclusive proof of the sums due and shall not be subject to any appeal or review in any court. Power to shut up and secure deserted buildings 84. (1) If any building or land, by reason of abandonment or disputed ownership or other cause, remains untenanted and thereby becomes liable to be a resort of idle and disorderly persons or otherwise becomes a public nuisance and is complained of by any two or more of the neighbours or by a police officer not below the rank of Assistant Superintendent or by the Health Officer, the local authority, after due inquiry may cause notice in writing to be given to the owner or the person claiming to be the owner, if he is known and resident in Malaysia, or, if he is not known or so resident, may cause such notice to be put on the door of the building or some conspicuous part of the premises, requiring the persons concerned therewith, wherever they may be, to secure and enclose the same or to abate the nuisance within such period of time as it may specify. (2) Any person who fails to comply with the requirements of the notice shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding two hundred 

Street, Drainage and Building 111 and fifty ringgit fo r every day that the offence is continued after the expiry of the period specified in the notice. (3) Where the owner fails to comply with the requirements of the notice the local authority may do any or all of the acts required by the notice and the cost and expense of doing such work shall be recoverable by the local authority from the owner. Building to which public have access to be clean 85. (1) The owner or the occupier of any building or any part thereof to which the public has access shall— (a) regularly clean and keep clean and in good repair such building or part thereof; and (b) keep such building or part thereof free of any condition which may endanger the life or health of his employees, members of the public and other users thereof. (2) Where, in the opinion of the local authority, the owner or the occupier of any such building or part thereof fails to comply with paragraph (1)(a) or (b), the local authority may, by notice in writing, require such owner or occupier within such period as may be specified therein to take such steps as the local authority deems fit. (3) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) or refuses, neglects or fails to comply within such period as may be specified in any notice issued by the local authority u nder subsection (2), shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding two thousand ringgit and shall also be liable to a further fine not exceeding two hundred ringgit for every day during which the offence is continued after expiry of the period specified in the notice. (4) Where any person who has been served with a notice under subsection (2) fails to comply therewith, the local authority may in its discretion, and without prejudice to any proceedings under subsection (3) and whether before or after the commencement or 

112 Laws of Malaysia ACT 133 conclusion of such proceedings, carry out all or any of the requirements set out in such notice and recover from such person the cost and expenses thereof. (5) The local authority may certify such cost and expenses incurred and the certificate of the local authority shall be conclusive proof of the sum due and shall not be subject to any appeal or review in any court. Periodical inspection of buildings and slopes 85A. (1) In this section— “engineer” means a Professional Engineer registered under the Registration of Engineers Act 1967 [Act 138]; “owner” means owner of a building o r land and in relation to a subdivided building includes— (a) the owner of a parcel of the building; (b) any person who is responsible for the building; or (c) the joint management body and management corporation under the Strata Management Act 2013 [Act 757]; (2) This section shall apply to a building exceeding five storeys and any storey of a building which is or at a level lower than the ground storey shall be deemed to be a storey , and a land with slope having a gradient more than twenty-five degrees and total vertical height more than ten metres, whether such land erected with or without building. (3) The local authority may, without prejudice to its powers under section 83, by a notice in writing served on— (a) the owner of a building, require the building to be inspected— 

Street, Drainage and Building 113 (i) after the tenth year commencing from the date the certificate of completion and compliance in respect of the building was issued; and (ii) thereafter at intervals of not more than ten years from the date of the completion of the last inspection of the building; and (b) the owner of a land with slope, require the slope to be inspected— (i) after the fifth year commencing fr om the date of the possession of land in respect of the slope; and (ii) thereafter at intervals of not more than five years from the date of the completion of the last inspection of the slope. (4) The owner of a building or land with slope shall, upon receipt of a notice under subsection (3), cause the building or slope to be inspected within the time specified in the notice by an engineer to be appointed by him. (5) If the notice under subsection (3) is not complied with the local authority may ins pect the building or slope or cause the building or slope to be inspected by an engineer appointed by it and recover all expenses reasonably incurred by it in doing so from the owner of the building or land with slope. (6) An engineer carrying out an inspection under this section shall inspect the building or slope in the manner prescribed in the by -laws which shall take into consideration the following: (a) a visual inspection of the building or slope , including a visual survey of the condition of the b uilding or slope and its structural elements and any addition or alteration to the building or slope and its structural elements; 

114 Laws of Malaysia ACT 133 (b) the preparation and submission to the local authority of a report of the result of the visual inspection; (c) if, after having considered the results of the visual inspection, the engineer reasonably suspects or is of the opinion that there is a defect, deformation or deterioration in the building or slope or its structural elements as will or will likely endanger or reduce the structural or slope stability or integrity of any part of the building or slope he shall request for permission from the local authority to carry out a full structural or slope investigation on the building or slope including investigation in respect of its structural elements; (d) if the local authority allows the request made under paragraph (c) the engineer shall carry out a full structural or slope investigation which shall include the following: (i) taking all reasonable steps in obtaining information relating to the design, erection, maintenance and history of the building or slope; (ii) checking the structural plans of the building or slope together with its structural calculations or geotechnical report, or with a view to determine any inadequacy in the structural elements of the building or slope; (iia) if the structural plans, structural calculations or geotechnical report referred to in subparagraph (ii) is not available, the engineer shall reconstruct such plans, calculations or report where the local authority so requires, with a view to determine any inadequacy in the structural elements of the building or slope; (iii) carrying out tests on the structural elements of the building or slope without d amaging any part thereof; 

Street, Drainage and Building 115 (iv) carrying out tests on the building or slope materials; and (v) carrying out load testing of such parts of the building or slope as the engineer considers necessary; and (e) the engineer shall thereafter prepare and submit to the local authority a report of the full structural or slope investigation and his recommendations. (7) An engineer carrying out an inspection or a full structural or slope investigation on a building or slope shall be entitled at all reasonable times to full and free access to the building or slope and any part thereof he is required to inspect or investigate and any person who hinders, obstructs or delays him in the performance of his duty shall be guilty of an offence. (8) Without prejudice to the right of the local authority to exercise its powers and recover expenses under this section , any owner of a building or land with slope who contravenes or fails to comply with a notice under subsection (3) shall be guilty of an offence. (9) The State Authority may by order, in the Gazette, provide for the application of this section with such adaptations or modifications as may be specified therein to buildings in respect of which no certificate of completion and compliance has been issued. (10) The local authority may, if it is satisfied after eval uating the visual inspection report submitted under paragraph (6) (b) or the full structural or slope investigation report and recommendations of the engineer submitted under paragraph (6)(e),— (a) accept it in full; (b) reject it; (c) accept part of it; or 

116 Laws of Malaysia ACT 133 (d) obtain a second opinion on it. (11) The local authority may thereafter— (a) issue an order to the owner of the building or land with slope to take the necessary measures to rectify or remedy any defect, deformation or deterioration as recommended by the engineer within such period as the local authority may specify; or (b) in place of an inquiry under section 83, issue an order to the owner of the building or land with slope for closure and demolition of the building or land with slope. (12) Before exercising its powers under subsection (11), the local authority shall, if it is reasonably practicable to do so, serve a copy of the order made thereunder to every occupier of the building or land with slope. (13) Any person who fails to comply with an order given under subsection (11) shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding one hu ndred thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding five years or to both and shall also be liable to a further fine not exceeding five hundred ringgit for every day during which the offence is continued after conviction. (14) Notwithstanding subsection (13), where the owner of a building or land with slope fails to comply with an order issued under subsection (11), the local authority may take any measure as specified in the said order or secure the closure and demolition of the building or land with slope and recover from the owner expenses reasonably incurred by it in relation thereto. Nuisances liable to be dealt with summarily under this Act 86. For the purposes of sections 87, 88, 89 and 90— 

Street, Drainage and Building 117 (a) any premises or part thereof of such a construction or in such a state as to be a nuisance or injurious or dangerous to health; (b) any pool, gutter, water -course, cistern, water-closet, water sealed latrine, privy, urinal, septic tank, sewer or drain so foul or in such a state or so situate as to be a nuisance or injurious or dangerous to health; (c) any building which— (i) is not kept in a clean state and free from effluvia arising from any sewer, drain, privy, water sealed latrine, septic tank, urinal or other nuisance; or (ii) is not ventilated in such a manner as to render harmless as far as practicable any gases, vapours, dust or other impurities generated in the course of the work carried on therein that are a nuisance or injurious or dangerous to health; (d) any huts or sheds, whether used as dwellings or as stables or for any other purpose, which are by reason of the manner in which the huts or sheds are crowded together or the want of drainage or the impracticability of scavenging or for any other reason a nuisance or injurious or dangerous to health; (e) any brickfield, sandpit or any other kind of excavation which is injurious to health or offensive to the neighbourhood or used for any purpose likely to be injurious to health; shall be a nuisance liable to be d ealt with summarily in accordance with sections 87, 88, 89 and 90. Notice requiring abatement of nuisance 87. (1) On receipt of any information respecting the existence of a nuisance liable to be dealt with summarily under this Act, the local 

118 Laws of Malaysia ACT 133 authority shall, if satisfied of the existence of a nuisance, serve a notice on the person by whose act, default or sufferance the nuisance arises or continues or, if such person cannot be found, on the occupier or owner of the premises on which the nuisance arises, requiring him to abate the same within the time s pecified in the notice to execute such works and do such things as are necessary for that purpose and, if the local authority thinks it desirable, specifying any works to be executed. Power to require works to be executed (2) The local authority may also by the same or another notice served on such occupier, owner or person require him to do what is necessary for preventing the recurrence of the nuisance and, if the local authority thinks it desirable, specify any works to be executed for that purpose, and may serve that notice notwithstanding that the nuisance had for the time being abated if the local authority considers that it is likely to recur on the same premises. (3) Where the nuisance arises from any want or defect of a structural character or where the premises are unoccupied, the notice shall be served on the owner. (4) Where the person causing the nuisance cannot be found and it is clear that the nuisance does not arise or cont inue by the act, default or sufferance of the occupier or owner of the premises, the local authority may cause the same to be abated and may do what is necessary to prevent the recurrence thereof. (5) Where a notice has been served on a person under this section and either— (a) the nuisance arose from the wilful act or default of the said person; or (b) such person makes default in complying with any of the requirements of the notice within the time specified; 

Street, Drainage and Building 119 he shall be liable on conviction to a fine no t exceeding five hundred ringgit for each offence whether any such nuisance order as in this Act mentioned is or is not made upon him. On non-compliance with notice, nuisance order to be made 88. (1) If either— (a) the person on whom notice to abate a nu isance has been served as aforesaid makes default in complying with any of the requisitions thereof within the time specified; or (b) the nuisance, although abated since the service of the notice, is in the opinion of the local authority likely to recur on the same premises, on complaint by the local authority a Magistrate’s Court hearing the complaint may make on such person a summary order, in this Act referred to as a “nuisance order”. Nuisance order (2) A nuisance order may be an abatement order or a prohibition order or a closing order or a combination of such orders. Abatement order (3) An abatement order may require a person to comply with all or any of the requisitions of the notice, or otherwise to abate the nuisance within a time specified in the order. Prohibition order (4) A prohibition order may prohibit the recurrence of a nuisance. 

120 Laws of Malaysia ACT 133 When to specify works to be executed (5) An abatement order or prohibition order shall, if the person on whom the order is made so requires or the court considers it desirable, specify the works to be executed by such person for the purpose of abating or preventing the recurrence of the nuisance. Closing order (6) A closing order may prohibit a dwelling house from being used for human habitation. When to be made (7) A closing order shall only be made where it is proved to the satisfaction of the court that by reason of a nuisance a dwelling house is unfit for human habitation, and, if such proof is given, the court shall make a closing order and may impose a fine not exceeding one thousand ringgit: Provided that a closing order shall not be made unless a notice of the hearing of the complaint on which it is to be made has been posted on the premises in a conspicuous pos ition with an intimation in such notice that any occupant of the premises may show cause against the making of such order. Cancelling closing order (8) A court, when satisfied that the dwelling house has been rendered fit for human habitation, may declare that it is so satisfied and cancel the closing order. 

Street, Drainage and Building 121 Penalty for not complying with order (9) Any person who fails to comply with the provisions of a nuisance order with respect to the abatement of a nuisance shall, unless he satisfies the court that he has used all due diligence to carry out such order, be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding one hundred ringgit a day during his default. (10) Any person who knowingly and wilfully acts contrary to a prohibition order or closing order shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding one hundred ringgit a day during such contrary action. (11) In either of the cases mentioned in subsections (9) and (10), the local authority or any person authorized by the loca l authority in writing in that behalf may enter the premises to which a nuisance order relates and abate or remove the nuisance and do whatever is necessary in the execution of such order and the expenses thereby incurred shall be paid by the person in default. (12) In case of nuisances caused by the act or default of the owner of premises, such expenses together with any costs and expenses which the court orders such owner to pay shall be deemed to be expenses to which section 104 applies and shall be recoverable under the provisions of that section. (13) A court making any order under this section may require any person on whom any order is made to pay all costs and expenses incurred in obtaining the order. Ejectment after closing order (14) Where a closing order has been made with respect to any dwelling house, the local authority shall serve notice of the order on every occupier of the dwelling -house and within such period as is specified in the notice not being less than seven days (e xcept in case of immediate danger) after the service of the notice the order shall be obeyed by him and he and his family shall cease to inhabit the dwelling house, and in default he shall be liable on conviction to a fine not 

122 Laws of Malaysia ACT 133 exceeding one hundred ringgit a day during his disobedience to the order, and the court shall, upon application by the local authority, make a summary order for his ejectment and the same may be carried into effect by any police officer or officer or employees of the local authority authorized in writing by the local authority: Expenses of removal Provided that the owner shall make to every tenant whose tenancy has not been lawfully determined such reasonable allowance, if any, on account of his expenses in removing as a court may allow or order, and such allowance shall be recoverable in a summary way before a Magistrate’s Court. Order for demolition of house unfit for habitation 89. (1) Where a closing order has been made in respect of any dwelling house and has not been ca ncelled by a subsequent order, the local authority, if of the opinion that— (a) the dwelling house has not been rendered fit for human habitation; (b) the necessary steps are not being taken with all due diligence to render it so fit; or (c) the continuance of any building being or being part of the dwelling house is dangerous or injurious to the health of the public or of the inhabitants of the neighbouring dwelling houses, may make a complaint to a Magistrate’s Court, and such court after hearing the complaint may make on the owner a summary order for the demolition of such dwelling house within a time specified in such order. 

Street, Drainage and Building 123 (2) The order may also contain a direction that the materials of the building or any part of such materials shall be destroyed. Execution of Order for demolition 90. (1) Where an order for the demolition of a building has been made, the owner thereof shall, within the time mentioned in such order, take down and remove the building and, if the order for demolition so directs and to the extent therein mentioned, destroy the materials thereof. (2) If the owner fails to comply with the order, the local authority or any person authorized by the local authority in writing in that behalf shall proceed to take down and remove the building and, if necessary, destroy the materials, and may recover the costs of such work from the owner. (3) The provisions of section 104 shall apply to any sum recoverable from the owners under this section. PART VI MISCELLANEOUS Mandatory order 91. (1) Whenever any owner or occupier is required under this Act to erect or remove any building or thing or to perform any other work to which the provisions of this Act apply, and such owner or occupier after due notice fails to erect or remove such building or thing or to perform such work within the specified time, the local authority may make a complaint and the Magistrate’s Court upon hearing the complaint shall make on such owner or occupier a summary order, in this Act referred to as a “mandatory order” requiring such owner or occupier to execute the required work. 

124 Laws of Malaysia ACT 133 Terms of mandatory order (2) A mandatory order shall require the person to whom it is directed to execute any work which the court is authorized to require to be executed within a time to be specified in such order and shall also require such person to pay to the local authority a sum for costs and expenses incurred in obtaining such mandatory order. Penalty for non-compliance (3) (a) Any person to whom the order is address ed who fails to comply with the requirements of a mandatory order shall, unless he satisfies the court that he has used all due diligence to carry out such order, be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding two hundred and fifty ringgit a day during his default. (b) Where the person fails to comply with the order, the local authority may enter the premises and execute the work so required to be executed and the expenses thereby incurred by the local authority shall be recoverable from the person in default in accordance with any law relating to the recovery of fines. Provision as to appeal against order 92. (1) Where a person appeals to the High Court against a mandatory order, no liability to a fine shall arise nor, save as in this section mentioned, shall any proceedings be taken or work done under such order until after the determination or abandonment of such appeal. Penalty where appeal fails (2) Where a mandatory order is made and a person does not comply with it and appeals against it to the High Court and such appeal is dismissed or is abandoned, the appellant shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding two hundred and fifty ringgit a day during the non-compliance with the order, unless he satisfies the court before 

Street, Drainage and Building 125 which proceedings are taken for imposing a fine that there was substantial ground for the appeal and that the appeal was not brought merely for the purpose of delay and, where the appeal is heard by the High Court, the court may, on dismissing the appeal, impose the fine as if the court were the court before which the summons was returnable. Proceedings pending appeal (3) Where a mandatory order is made on any person and appealed against and the court which made the order is of opinion that the non- execution of the mandatory order will be injurious or dangerous to public health or safety and that the immediate execution thereof will not cause any injury which cannot be compensated by damages, such court may authorize the local authority immed iately to execute the work. (4) The local authority, if it does so and the appeal is successful, shall pay the cost of such execution there and the damages, if any, sustained by the said person by reason of such execution thereof, but, if the appeal is dismissed or abandoned, the local authority may recover the cost of such execution thereof from the said person. Proceedings where owner is unknown 93. (1) Where the name or address of the owner of any premises with regard to which a Magistrate’s C ourt is empowered to make a mandatory order is unknown and cannot with reasonable diligence be discovered, such court may issue a summons addressed to the owner of the premises. (2) Such summons may be served in the manner specified in section 120. (3) If the owner does not appear upon the hearing of the summons, such court may make such an order upon him in his absence as it might 

126 Laws of Malaysia ACT 133 have made in his presence except that it shall not inflict any fine upon him. In case of urgency order may be made ex parte 94. (1) If in any case in which a Magistrate’s Court has jurisdiction to make a mandatory order, the court is of the opinion that the matter complained of will be injurious or dangerous to public health or safety and the immediate execution o f the work will not cause any injury which cannot be compensated by damages, such court may, by an ex parte order, authorize the local authority immediately to execute such work. (2) If the application for a mandatory order is subsequently refused, the local authority shall pay the damages, sustained by any person thereby, but if the mandatory order is subsequently granted the local authority may recover the cost of the work. Protection of the State Authority and officers from personal liability 95. (1) No matter or thing done and no contract entered into by any State Authority and no matter or thing done by any officer employed in the administration of this Act or other person whomsoever acting under the direction of any State Authority shall if the matter or thing was done or the contract was entered into bona fide for the purpose of executing this Act, subject them or any of them personally to any action, liability, claim or demand whatsoever. (2) The State Authority, local authority and a ny public officer or officer or employee of the local authority shall not be subject to any action, claim, liabilities or demand whatsoever arising out of any building or other works carried out in accordance with the provisions of this Act or any by-laws made thereunder or by reason of the fact that such building works or the plans thereof are subject to inspection and approval by the State Authority, local authority, or such public officer or officer or employee of the State Authority or the local authority and 

Street, Drainage and Building 127 nothing in this Act or any by-laws made thereunder shall make it obligatory for the State Authority or the local authority to inspect any building, building to ascertain that the provisions of this Act or any by- laws made thereunder are complied with or that plans, certificates and notices submitted to him are accurate. Indemnity by local authority 96. Any expense incurred by any State Authority, officer or other person acting in accordance with the provisions of section 95 shall be borne by the local authority. Power to enter upon lands for the purposes of this Act 97. Any local authority may, for the purposes of this Act, by its officers, employees, agents or contractors, enter at all reasonable hours in the daytime into and upon any buildin g or land as well for the purpose of making any survey or inspection as for the purpose of executing any work authorized by this Act to be executed by it without being liable to any legal proceedings or molestation whatsoever on account of such entry or of anything done in any part of such building or land in pursuance of this Act: Proviso Provided that the local authority shall not enter into any dwelling house in actual occupation, except with the consent of the occupier thereof or after giving twen ty four hours’ previous notice to such occupier: Provided also that the State Authority may declare that any class of premises, for the control and supervision of which by -laws may be made under this Act, are liable to night inspection, and thereupon any officer, employee, agent or contractor in that behalf duly authorized in writing may, at any time of the day or night and without notice, enter 

128 Laws of Malaysia ACT 133 using such force as may be necessary into and search or inspect any premises of the class specified in the declaration. Power of any authority to enter on lands adjacent to works 98. (1) Any local authority may, by its officers, employees, agents or contractors, enter upon any land adjoining to or being within the distance of one hundred yards of any works b y this Act authorized to be made, for the purpose of depositing upon such land any soil, gravel, sand, lime, brick, stone or other materials or for any other purposes connected with the formation of the said works without making any previous payment, tender or deposit, doing as little damage as may be in the exercise of the several powers hereby granted and making compensation for such temporary occupation or temporary damage of the said land two the owner and occupier thereof from time to time and as often as any such temporary occupation is taken or any such temporary damage done and making compensation to the owner also for the permanent injury, if any, to such land. (2) If any dispute arises touching on the amount or apportionment of such compensat ion, the same shall be settled in the manner hereinafter provided. (3) Before any local authority makes any such temporary use as aforesaid of the land adjoining or lying near to the said works, it shall give seven days’ notice of its intention to th e owners or occupiers of such land and shall set apart by sufficient fences so much of the land as is required to be used as aforesaid from the other land adjoining thereto. Any local authority in executing works to provide alternative roads, etc., where existing ones are interrupted, etc. 99. (1) Any local authority in executing any works directed or authorized to be made shall provide and make a sufficient number of convenient ways, water -courses, drains and channels in the place of 

Street, Drainage and Building 129 such as are inter rupted, injured or rendered useless by reason of the execution of such works. (2) The local authority shall make reasonable compensation to any person who suffers damage by reason of the same, the amount of such compensation in case of dispute to be ascertained and determined in the manner hereinafter provided. Penalty for obstructing any authority in its duty 100. Any person who at any time hinders, obstructs or molests any local authority or any of its officers, employees, agents or contractors in the performance and execution of its duty or of anything which it is respectively empowered or required to do by virtue or in consequence of this Act or removes any mark set up for the purpose of indicating any level or direction necessary to the execution of works authorized by this Act, shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding one thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term which may extend to six months. Compensation, damages and costs to be determined by court 101. (1) Except as herein otherwise provided in all cases when compensation, damages, fees, costs or expenses are by this Act directed to be paid by the local authority to any person or by any person to any other person the amount and, if necessary, the apportionment of the same and any question or liability shall, in case of dispute or failure to pay, be summarily ascertained and determined by a Magistrate’s Court. (2) If the amount of compensation, damages, fees, costs or expenses is not paid by the party liable t o pay the same within seven days after demand, such default may be reported to a Magistrate’s Court and such amount recovered in the same way as if it were a fine imposed by a Magistrate’s Court. 

130 Laws of Malaysia ACT 133 (3) An appeal shall lie to the High Court from any dec ision of a Magistrate’s Court under this section, and the provisions of the Criminal Procedure Code [Act 593] shall mutatis mutandis apply to all such appeals. Where occupier defaults owner may execute work 102. Whenever default is made by an owner of any premises in the execution of any work required under this Act to be executed by him, an occupier of such premises may, with the approval of the local authority, cause such work to be executed and the expense thereof shall be paid to him by the owner or the amount may be deducted out of the rent from time to time becoming due from him to such owner and such occupier may, in the absence of any special agreement to the contrary, retain possession until such expense has been fully reimbursed to him. Exemption of agent who has no funds in hand 103. (1) No person receiving the rent of premises as receiver or agent for another person shall be liable to do anything by this Act required to be done by the owner of such premises if, after he or the actual owner has been required to do any work, such person gives notice to the local authority, within seven days after such requisition has been made, that he has not sufficient funds of the person on whose behalf he is receiving the rents to pay for such work. (2) In such case the local authority may itself execute the work and the expenses incurred thereby shall be charged and recoverable in the manner hereinafter provided. Recovery of expenses and costs payable by owners 104. (1) All and any sums payable by or recoverable from the owner or owners in respect of expenses and costs incurred by the local authority in or about the execution of any work which are, under this Act recoverable from the owner or owners of any premises shall, 

Street, Drainage and Building 131 subject and without prejudice to any other rights of the local authority, be a first charge on the premises in respect of which such expenses or costs have been incurred. (2) In addition to any other remedies conferred by this Act any such sum may be recovered in the ma nner hereinafter provided, and the person or persons liable to pay the same shall be the owner or owners at the time when the work was completed. (3) Any occupier who when requested by or on behalf of the local authority to state the name of the owne r of the premises refuses or wilfully omits to disclose or wilfully mis-states the same shall, unless he shows cause to the satisfaction of the court for his refusal or mis-statement, be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding five hundred ringgit. Proceedings in default (4) If any such sum remains unpaid at the expiration of the prescribed time, a notice shall be served upon the person or any one of the persons, if more than one, liable to pay the same, calling on him to pay the same together with a fee of such amount as may be prescribed for the cost of the notice, within fifteen days of the service of such notice. (5) If no person liable to pay the same can be found, such notice shall be deemed to have been duly served by the posting thereof at the office of the local authority and by fixing a copy thereof on some conspicuous part of the premises in respect of which such expenses or costs have been incurred. (6) At the expiration of the said period of fifteen days or such further period as may be allowed by the local authority, if any such sum or any part thereof remains due and unpaid, it shall be deemed to be in arrears and may be recovered in the manner hereinafter provided. (7) The charge hereinbefore mentioned shall atta ch, and the powers and remedies hereinbefore conferred shall become exercisable 

132 Laws of Malaysia ACT 133 as from the date of completion of the work, and thereafter such powers and remedies may be exercised against the premises or against any movable property or crops for the time being found thereon, notwithstanding any change or changes in the ownership or occupation of the premises subsequent to the said date. Recovery of expenses and costs by instalments 105. (1) When any local authority has incurred expenses and costs in or about the execution of any work, which are, under this Act, payable by or recoverable from the owner or owners, the local authority may either recover such expenses and costs in manner hereinbefore provided or, if it thinks fit, may take an engagement or engagements from such owner or owners for the payment of such instalments as will be sufficient to defray the whole amount of such expenses and costs with interest thereon at a rate not exceeding six per centum per annum, within a period not exceeding ten years. (2) Upon default in payment of any instalment or interest upon the date appointed for payment thereof by any such engagement, the whole of the balance then outstanding of such amount, together with any interest in arrears, shall immediately become due and payable and, notwithstanding any charge in the ownership or occupation of the premises since the date of the engagement, may be recovered by the same means and in like manner as provided in section 104. Proceedings for recovery of arrears 106. (1) For the recovery of arrears the local authority shall have and may exercise, either successively or concurrently, in addition to any other remedies conferred by this Act, either or both of the powers following, that is to say: (a) the local autho rity may issue a warrant of attachment and may seize by virtue thereof any movable property and crops of any person liable to pay the arrears and may also seize any movable property or any crops to whomsoever 

Street, Drainage and Building 133 belonging which are found on the premises in re spect of which the arrears are due and may, after service of the prescribed notice, sell the same by public auction in the prescribed manner; (b) the local authority may, by notice of sale to be served or published in the prescribed manner, declare its intention of selling, at the expiration of three months from the date of such notice of sale, the premises in respect of which the arrears are due and, if, at the expiration of such period, such arrears have not been paid or satisfied, the local authority may sell by public auction, in lots or otherwise, the whole of such premises or such portion thereof or such interest therein as it deems sufficient for recovery of such arrears and costs: Provided that the local authority shall not proceed under paragraph (b) to sell the premises in respect of which the arrears are due, or any portion thereof or interest therein, where there is or are upon the premises and liable to be seized and sold under paragraph (a) movable property or crops belonging to the owner of a value estimated by the local authority to be sufficient to realize the sum required to satisfy the arrears and costs. (2) Any tenant, subtenant, or occupier, who, in order to avoid the seizure or sale of his property for non -payment of arrears payable by the owner of the premises, pays such arrears and costs may thereafter, in the absence of any written agreement to the contrary, deduct the amount so paid by him from the rent due or to become due by him to his immediate landlord on account of the premises or such part thereof as is held or occupied by him, and may retain possession until such amount has been fully reimbursed to him whether by deduction from the rent or otherwise. Any tenant or sub -tenant who has reimbursed, whether by allowing a deduction from his rent or otherwise, any subtenant or occupier holding or occupying under him the amount so paid by such subtenant or occupier shall have a similar right to deduct the amount from the rent due or to become due to his immediate landlord and to retain possession until similarly reimbursed. 

134 Laws of Malaysia ACT 133 (3) The receipt of any duly authorized public officer for any amount so paid by any such tenant, subtenant or occupier shall be deemed an acquittance in full for the like amount of rent. (4) If any premises in respect of which arrears are due, or any such movable property or crops as are mentioned in subsection (1) or the proceeds of sale thereof are already in the custody of the law under any process of execution whereby the local authority is unable to exercise the remedies herein before conferred, the local authority may notify the sheriff or the bailiff of the court concerned of the amount of the arrears, and shall be entitled without obtaining a judgment to be paid such amount out of the proceeds of sale of such premises or property in priority to the judgment debtor and to the judgment creditor and to any other creditor. (5) A certificate from the local authority shall, unless the same be disputed by the judgment debtor, be prima facie evidence of the amount of such arrears, and, in case of dispute, the amount shall be summarily determined by a Magistrate’s Court. Attachment 107. (1) The attachment mentioned in paragraph 106 (1) (a) may be made by a person appointed for the purpose by the local authority who shall publicly notify the attachment and shall take an inventory of the property attached. (2) Such person shall be deemed to be a public servant within the meaning of the Penal Code [Act 574]. (3) Such person may break open in daytime any house or building for the purpose of effecting such attachment. Application of proceeds 108. (1) The proceeds of a sale under subsection 106(1) shall be applied in the first place in satisfaction of the arrears together with interest thereon at the rate of six per centum per annum and costs. 

Street, Drainage and Building 135 (2) In the event of there being any surplus remaining the local authority shall, if satisfied as to the right of any person claiming such surplus, pay the amount thereof to such person or, if not so satisfied, shall hold the amount in trust for the person who may ultimately succeed in due course of law in establishing his title thereto. (3) If no title is established to such surplus within a period of two years from the date of th e sale, it shall be paid into the Improvement Service Fund of the local authority. Title conferred by purchase at sale under section 106 109. (1) The purchaser at a sale held under paragraph 106(1) (b) shall be deemed to have acquired the right offered for sale free from all subordinate interests derived from it except such as are expressly reserved by the local authority at the time of sale. (2) The local authority shall notify in such manner as it deems fit the result of the sale and the conveya nce to the purchaser of the property or right offered for sale. Cost of proceedings for recovery of arrears 110. All costs of any proceedings for the recovery of arrears may be recovered as if they formed part of such arrears. Power to stop sale 111. If any person having any interest in any property liable to be sold at any time previous to such sale tenders to the local authority the arrears with interest and costs, the local authority shall thereupon desist from all further proceedings in respect thereof. 

136 Laws of Malaysia ACT 133 Application to court 112. (1) If any person whose movable property, crop or land has been attached or advertised for sale disputes the propriety of the attachment or sale, he may apply for an order to stay the proceedings. (2) The court, after hearing the local authority and making such further inquiry as is necessary, shall make such order as is just. Security to be given 113. No application shall be entertained by the court under section 112 unless the applicant has deposited in court the amount of the arrears and costs or given security for the same to the satisfaction of the court. Liability of transferor 114. (1) Every person who sells or transfers any property in respect of which costs and expenses have been incurred by the local authority in or about the execution of any work which are, under this Act, recoverable from the owner thereof shall continue to be liable for the payment of all such costs and expenses payable in respect of such property and for the performan ce of all other obligations imposed by this Act upon the owner of such property which become payable or are to be performed at any time before such notice of transfer has been given. (2) Nothing herein shall affect the liability of the purchaser or transferee to pay such expenses or costs in respect of such property or affect the right of the local authority to recover such costs and expenses from or to enforce any obligation under this Act against the purchaser or transferee. 

Street, Drainage and Building 137 Proceedings if an occupier opposes the execution of works 115. (1) If the occupier of any premises prevents the owner thereof from carrying into effect in respect of such premises any of the provisions of this Act after notice of his intention so to do has been given by the owner to such occupier, a Magistrate’s Court, upon proof thereof and upon application of the owner, may make an order in writing, requiring such occupier to permit the owner to execute all such works with respect to such premises as are necessary for carrying into effect the provisions of this Act and may also, if it thinks fit, order the occupier to pay to the owner the costs relating to such application or order. (2) If after the expiration of eight days from the date of the order such occupier continues to refuse to permit such owner to execute such works, such occupier shall, for every day during which he so continues to refuse, be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding one hundred ringgit, and every such owner during the continuance of such refusal shall be discharged from any penalties to which he might otherwise have become liable by reason of his default in executing such works. Disposal of matters and things removed by local authority 116. (1) Any matter or thing removed by any loc al authority in executing any work which it is entitled to execute under this Act shall except as otherwise provided be the property of the local authority and may be sold by public auction or, if the local authority thinks the circumstances of the case re quire, may be sold otherwise or be disposed of without sale. (2) The moneys arising from the sale may be retained by the local authority and applied in or towards the expenses incurred and the surplus, if any, shall be paid on demand to the owner of such matter or thing. (3) If such surplus is not claimed within two years it shall be paid into the Improvement Service Fund of the local authority. 

138 Laws of Malaysia ACT 133 (4) If any matters or things belonging to several persons are removed by the local authority in executing any such work, it shall cause such matters or things, if sold, to be sold separately. Licences to be discretionary 117. (1) The grant or renewal of any licence in pursuance of this Act or any by-laws made thereunder shall be in the discret ion of the local authority or person authorized to grant or renew the same and a licence may be granted, renewed or refused without assigning any reason therefor and may be granted or renewed subject to such restrictions and conditions as the local authori ty or person granting or renewing the same may think fit and such licence shall be subject to suspension or revocation at any time without compensation and without notice by the local authority upon breach of any restriction or condition subject to which it was issued. (2) The local authority or person authorized to grant or renew such licence may require any applicant therefor to furnish such information as the local authority or that person may reasonably require for a full and proper consideration of the application and in the event of a refusal to furnish such information shall refuse to grant or renew such licence. (3) Save as otherwise provided any licence granted or renewed in pursuance of this Act or any by-laws made thereunder may be for such period not exceeding twelve months as the local authority thinks fit. (4) There shall be charged for the grant or renewal of any licence such fee, if any, as may be prescribed. (5) No such licence shall be transferable without the consent of the local authority. (6) Save as otherwise provided any person aggrieved by the refusal by any local authority to grant or renew a licence or by the suspension or revocation by such local authority of any licence may within the month of such refusal, suspension or revocation appeal to the State Authority whose decision thereon shall be final. 

Street, Drainage and Building 139 (7) In this section “licence” includes any approval, consent permit, permission, authorization or licence which may be granted in pursuance of this Act or any by-laws made thereunder. Notices, etc. 118. The State Authority may prescribe the form of notices and other documents issued under this Act. Receipts and notices may be given by officer authorized thereunto 119. (1) All notices, orders, receipts, warrants and other documents of whatsoever nature which a local authority is empowered to give by this Act or any by-laws made thereunder may be given by any officer or employee authorized thereunto by the local authority. (2) Where any such notice, order, receipt, warrant or document requires authentication, the signature or a facsimile thereof of the local authority or any officer or employee authorized thereunto by the local authority affixed thereto shall be sufficient authentication. Service of notices 120. (1) Every notice, order, summons or document required or authorized by this Act or any by-laws made thereunder to be served on any person may be served— (a) by delivering the same to such person or by delivering the same at the last known place of abode of such person to some adult member or servant of his family; (b) by leaving the same at the usual or last known place of abode or business of such person in a cover addressed to such person; or 

140 Laws of Malaysia ACT 133 (c) by forwarding the same by po st in a prepaid cover addressed to such person at his usual or last known place of abode or business. (2) A notice, order, summons or document required or authorized by this Act or any by-laws made thereunder to be served on the owner or occupier of any premises shall be deemed to be properly addressed if addressed by the description of the “owner” or “occupier” of such premises without further name or description. (3) A notice, order, summons or document required or authorized by this Act or any by-laws made thereunder to be served on the owner or occupier of any premises may be served by delivering the same or a true copy thereof to some adult person on the premises or, if there is no such person on the premises to whom the same can with reasonable diligence be delivered, by affixing the notice, order, summons, or document to some conspicuous part of the premises. Default in compliance with notice. General penalty 121. (1) When any notice under this Act or any by -laws made thereunder requires any act to be done or work to be executed by the owner or occupier of any premises and default is made in complying with the requirement of such notice, the person in default shall, where no fine is specially provided for such default, be liable on con viction to a fine not exceeding ten thousand ringgit or if any work is required to be done, not exceeding one thousand ringgit a day. (2) When any such notice requires any act to be done or work to be executed for which no time is fixed by this Act or any by-laws made thereunder, it shall fix a reasonable time for complying with the requirement. Court for trial of offences 122. Any offence under this Act or any by -laws made thereunder may be tried by a Magistrate’s Court. 

Street, Drainage and Building 141 Prosecution 123. No prosecution for an offence under this Act or any by -laws made thereunder shall be instituted except by or with the written consent of the Public Prosecutor. Employee of authority may demand names and addresses in certain cases 124. (1) Any person who is charged by any officer or employee of the local authority or any police officer with any offence under this Act or any by-laws made thereunder shall give his name and address to such officer, employee or police officer, if so required. (2) The occupier of any premises shall, if required by any officer or employee of the local authority or any police officer, give the name and address of the owner of the premises, if known. Penalty (3) Any person who offends under this section or wilfully misstates his name and address or the name and address of the owner of any premises shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding two hundred and fifty ringgit. Power of arrest 125. (1) Any police officer or any officer or employee of the local authority duly authorized in writing by the local authority generally or in any particular case may arrest any person committing any offence in his view or who he has reason to believe has committed any offence punishable under this Act or any by-laws made thereunder— (a) if the name and address of the person are unknown to him; (b) if the person declines to give his name and address; or 

142 Laws of Malaysia ACT 133 (c) if there is reason to doubt the accuracy of the name and address, if given. (2) A person arrested under this section ma y be detained until his name and address are correctly ascertained: Provided that no person so arrested shall be detained longer than is necessary for bringing him before a court unless the order of a court for his detention is obtained. Saving of prosecutions 126. Nothing in this Act shall prevent any person from being prosecuted under any other law for any act or omission which constitutes an offence under this Act or any by -laws made thereunder or from being liable under that other law to any o ther or higher punishment or penalty than that provided by this Act or any by-laws made thereunder: Provided that no person shall be punished more than once for the same offence. General penalties 127. Any person guilty of an offence under this Act or any by-laws made thereunder for which no penalty is expressly provided shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding ten thousand ringgit and shall also be liable to a further fine not exceeding five hundred ringgit for every day that the offence is continued after conviction. Damage to property of local authority to be made good in addition to penalty 128. (1) If through any act, neglect or default any person has committed an offence under this Act or any by-laws made thereunder and by such act, neglect or default such person has caused damage to any property 

Street, Drainage and Building 143 belonging to the local authority, such person shall in addition to any penalty that may be imposed for that offence, be liable to make good the damage. (2) The amount of such damag e shall, in case of dispute be determined by the court by which the party incurring such penalty is convicted. (3) The amount of such damage shall be recovered as if it were a fine imposed by the court. Inaccuracies in documents 129. No misnomer or inaccurate description of any person, premises, building, holding, street or place named or described in any document prepared, issued or served under, by virtue of or for the purposes of this Act or any by -laws made thereunder shall in any way affect the operation of this Act or any such by -laws as respects that person or place if that person or place is so designated in the document as to be identifiable, and no proceedings taken under or by virtue of this Act or any such by-laws shall be invalid for want of form. Evidence 130. (1) The contents of any document prepared, issued or served under, by virtue of or for the purpose of this Act shall until the contrary be proved be presumed to be correct and the production of any book purporting to contain any apportionment made under or by virtue of this Act or any by -laws made thereunder shall without any other evidence whatever, be received as prima facie proof of the making and validity of the apportionment mentioned therein. (2) All records, registers and other documents required by this Act or any by-laws made thereunder to be kept by the local authority or by any public officer shall be deemed to be public documents and copies thereof or extracts therefrom certified by the officer responsible for the custody thereof to be true copies, or extracts, as the case may be, 

144 Laws of Malaysia ACT 133 subscribed by such officer with his name and his official title shall be admissible in evidence as proof of the contents of such document or extract thereof. Evidential provisions 131. Notwithstanding the provisions of any written law, in any proceedings under this Act or any by -laws made thereunder, a certificate for the purpose of establishing— (a) the registered proprietor of any land; (b) the registered owner of a motor vehicle; which purports to be signed by the District Land Administrator or the Director for Road Transport, as the case may be, shall unless the contrary is proved, be evidence of any fact stated therein. Improvement Service Fund 132. (1) There shall be established for the purpose of this Act in each local authority a fund to be known as the “Improvement Service Fund” into which shall be paid all moneys that may from time to time be paid to a local authority for the purposes of carrying out the provisions of this Act, all moneys recoverable by the local authority from any person under this Act or any by -laws made thereunder and any contributions from any person towards the beautification, construction or laying out of any street, drain, culvert, gutter or water-course. (2) The Improvement Service Fund shall be administered by the local authority at its absolute discretion. (3) Without prejudice to the generality of paragraph (2) the local authority may pay out from the Improvement Service Fund any expenses which may be incurred in carrying out the provisions of this Act. 

Street, Drainage and Building 145 PART VII BY-LAWS By-laws 133. The State Authority shall have the power to make by -laws for or in respect of every purpose which is deemed by him necessary for carrying out the provisions of this Act, and for prescribing any matter which is authorized or required under this Act to be prescribed, and in particular and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing for or in respect of all or any of the matters specified hereunder— (i) the laying or carrying of any line of rails, mains, pipes, conduits or electric lines *(other than sewers) along, through, across, over or under any street or any place laid out or intended for a street; (ii) the granting of licences for the carrying and maintenance of telegraphic wires or cables or wires for the conveyance of electricity along or across or under public streets and the fixing and levying of annual or other fees therefor; (iii) the level, width and construction of streets and the repairing, cleaning, watering and lighting of streets, roads, canals and bridges and the planting and preservation of trees; (iv) the supervision and control of back -lanes under the control of the local authority, of public streets and of streets laid out or constructed by the local authority, the licensing of persons to use such streets and back-lanes for any purpose or in any particular manner other than in the exercise of any right of way thereover; (v) the construction, paving, width and level of arcades and footways; 

146 Laws of Malaysia ACT 133 (vi) the construction, maintenance and repair in any building or on any premises of a water supply, sanitary accommodation, sink accommodation, bathing and washing accommodation; (vii) (Deleted by Act A867); (viii) (Deleted by Act A1312); (ix) the provision, construction, maintenance and repair of wells, tanks and cisterns; (x) the prevention, removal and suppression of obstructions or encroachments in or on back -lanes, public streets, private streets and arcades abutting thereon and the provision, construction, dimensions and pavi ng along any portion of any land alongside such streets; (xi) the closing, fencing, lighting and repair of any works, hole or place likely to be a danger to the public; (xii) the construction, alteration and demolition of buildings and the methods and materials to be used in connection therewith; (xiia) the submission of plans, specifications, calculations, particulars, documents and reports relating to erection of building, the persons principal submitting persons and submitting persons and their duties and responsibilities, and the form and nature or classification of such plans, calculations, particulars, documents and reports; (xiib) the manner and procedure for making an application for the approval of plans and specifications for erection of building; (xiic) the planning, design and erection of building including— (a) the structural strength of the building; (b) the stability of the building; 

Street, Drainage and Building 147 (c) precautions against overloading; (d) measures to safeguard adjacent buildings; and (e) underpinning; (xiid) the provision of embankments and retaining walls; (xiie) the submission of particulars of qualified persons, contractors, skilled construction workers and construction site supervisors engaged or employed for the purposes of or in the erection of building; (xiif) the prescribing of documents, books or records to be kept and reports or certificates to be made or issued under this Act; (xiig) the time, manner and procedure for the issuance of the certificate of completion and compliance and partial certificate of completion and compliance; (xiih) the manner and procedure for the sampling of building materials; (xiii) the manner for carrying out periodical inspection of buildings and slopes and the form in which the reports required in relation thereto shall be submitted; (xiii) the frontage of, air space about, lighting, air conditioning, ventilation, height of and approaches and entrances to, the provision of parking places for vehicles in or for and exits from buildings; (xiv) the minimum timber or other building material content in any building; 

148 Laws of Malaysia ACT 133 (xv) the dimensions of rooms, cubicles, staircases and other parts of buildings and the provision of light and air thereto; (xvi) the provision for the paving, width and level of arcades and footways; (xvii) the provision in any building or on any premises of a water supply, sanitary accommodation, sink accommodation, bathing and washing accommodation; (xviii) the provision, construction, maintenance and repair of drains; (xix) (Deleted by Act A1312); (xx) the prescribing of forms for licences and other purposes for use in connection with this Act; (xxi) securing the prevention and the prevention of the spread and extinguishment of fire; Such by-laws may include— (a) provisions for building materials to be fire resisting and for the fire resistance grading of such materials; (b) provisions regarding methods of construction and design of any building to secure its safety from fire; (c) provisions for means of escape from any premises in the event of fire and for the maintenance of such means of escape; (d) provisions for fire stops and fire breaks; (e) provisions with regard to access to premises for the fire brigade in the event of fire, and include means of access within a building for fire fighting purposes; 

Street, Drainage and Building 149 (f) provisions for the ventilation of buildings for the purpose of removing gases and smoke that may be caused by a fire; (g) provisions for fire fighting equipment both manual and automatic and of fire detectors and fire alarms and their maintenance; (h) provisions for an adequate supply of water for fire fighting purposes; (i) any other measures for the safety of fires and the prevention and spread of fire; (xxii) to require the owner or occupier of premises, or any other person having a duty under this Act or any by -law made thereunder, to execute any work or perform a ny act necessary in the opinion of the local authority to secure compliance with such Act or by -laws and in default of compliance with such requirement on the part of such owner or occupier or other person, to authorize the local authority to execute such work or perform such act itself and to recover the expenses and costs incurred by it in or about the execution of such work or the performance of any such act, from such owner, occupier or other person, as the case may be; (xxiii) in case of emergency or where th e owner cannot after due enquiry be found, to authorize the local authority to execute such work or perform such act itself without first requiring the owner, occupier or other person as aforesaid to do so, and to recover the expenses and costs incurred by it in or about the execution of such work or the performance of such act from such owner, occupier or other person; (xxiv) to apportion responsibility for failure to any building or parts of a building and to require any person or class of persons to report such failures and to explain the causes of such failure; 

150 Laws of Malaysia ACT 133 (xxv) the payments to be made for, and other incidents of, licences and permits issued under this Act; (xxvi) the fees, costs and other sums charged for any matter or thing required or authorized to be done under this Act; (xxvii) the collection, remission, rebate or deferment of payment of any sum required to be paid under this Act; (xxviii) the offences under this Act and any by -laws made thereunder which may be compounded by the local authority, the persons who may compound, t he limit of the sum of money to be collected by such local authority for compounding such offences and the procedure and forms to be complied with in compounding; and (xxix) in so far as they do not fall within any of the preceding paragraphs, all procedural and other matters which by this Act are required or permitted to be prescribed, or which are necessary or convenient to be prescribed for carrying out or giving effect to the provisions of this Act. PART VIII REPEALS, TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS, ETC. Repeals, transitional provisions, etc. 134. (1) The laws specified in the Schedule are hereby repealed as from the commencement of this Act. (2) The Yang di-Pertuan Agong may, at any time within the period of five years beginning with the commencement of this Act, by order under this section— (a) repeal any other written law in force immediately before that commencement and rendered obsolete or unnecessary by any provision thereof; 

Street, Drainage and Building 151 (b) make such repeals or amendments in any such law as he may consider necessary for the purpose of bringing the provisions thereof into accord with the provisions of this Act, or of supplementing the last mentioned provisions in any respect: Provided that the power conferred by this subsection shall not be exercised in respect of a State Law otherwise than with the concurrence of the State Authority. Power of State Authority to make transitional provisions, etc. 135. The State Authority may, by regulations, make such provision as it may consider necessary or expedient for the purpose of removing any difficulties occasioned by the coming into force of this Act, and any such regulations may be so made so as to have effect as from the commencement of this Act. 

152 Laws of Malaysia ACT 133 SCHEDULE REPEAL A. The Town Boards Enactment [F.M.S. Cap. 137] of the Federated Malay States. Sections 67, 68, 69, 70, 71, 72, 73, 74, 76, paragraphs 78 (a), (d), subparagraphs (g)(i) and (ii), paragraphs 78(h) and (l), 89, 90, 91,91 A, 92, 92A, 92B, 93, 94, 95, 96, 97, 98, 99, 100, 101, 102, 103, 104, 105, 106, 107, 108, 109, 110, 110A, 111, 112, 113, 114, 115, 115A, 116, 117, 118, 119, 123, 124, 125, 126, 127, 128, 129, 130, 131, 132, 133, 133 A, 134 and 134A . B. Municipal Ordinance [S.S. Cap 133]. Paragraphs 58(1)(g), (j) and (ee), Sections 95, 97, 98, 99, 100, 101, 102, 103, 104, 105, 106, 107, 108, 109, 110, 111, 112, 113, 114, 115, 116, 117, 118, 119, 120, 121, 122, 123, 124, 125, 126, 127, 128, 129, 130, 131, 132, 133, 134, 135, 136, 137, 138, 139, 139A, 140, 141, 142, 142A, 143, 144, 144A, 144B, 144C, 145, 146, 147, 148, 150, 151, 152, 153, 154, 155, 156A, 157, 158, 159, 160, 161, 162, 163, 164, 165, 166, 167, 168, 169, 170, 170 A, 170B, 170C, 219, 229, paragraphs 245 (a), (b), (except in so far as it applies to dung-pit and ash-pit), (e), subparagraphs 245(e)(i) and (ii), paragraphs 245(f) and (k), sections 369, 370 and 395A. C. Johore Town Boards Enactment [Johore No. 118]. Sections 67, 68, 69, 70, 71, 72, 73, 74, 76, paragraph 78 (d), subparagraphs 78(g)(i) and (ii), paragraphs 78(h) and (l), 89, 90, 91, 91A, 92, 92A, 92B, 93, 94, 95, 96, 97, 98, 99, 100, 101, 102, 103, 104, 105, 106, 107, 108, 109, 110, 110A, 111, 112, 113, 114, 115, 115A, 116, 117, 118, 119, 120, 121, 122, 129, 130, 131, 132, 133, 133A, 134 and 134A. D. Kelantan Municipal Enactment 1938 [Kelantan 20 of 1938]. Sections 11A, 44, 45, 45A, 46, 46A, 46B, 47, 48, 49, 50, 51, 52, 53, 54, 55, 56 and 57. E. Terengganu Town Board Enactment 1355 [Terengganu 12 of 1355]. Sections 67, 68, 69, 70, 71, 72, 73, 74, 76, paragraphs 78(i), (iv), subparagraphs (vii)(a) and (b), paragraphs 78(viii) and (xii), 89, 90, 91, 

Street, Drainage and Building 153 91A, 92, 92 A, 92B, 93, 94, 95, 96, 97, 98, 99, 100, 101, 102, 103, 104, 105, 106, 107, 108, 109, 110, 110A, 111, 112, 113, 114, 115, 115A, 116, 117, 120, 121, 122, 129, 130, 131, 133, 133A, 134, 134A and 143. ______________ 

154 Laws of Malaysia ACT 133 APPENDIX STREET, DRAINAGE AND BUILDING ACT 1974—ACT 133 Date of coming into force of the Act in local authority of: State Effective date Authority Federal Territory of 011977 P.U. (B) 588/1976 Kuala Lumpur JOHORE Municipal Council of— Johore Bahru 011984 P.U. (B) 53/1984 District Council of— Pontian 011984 P.U. (B) 54/1984 Muar Utara 011984 P.U. (B) 55/1984 Muar Selatan 011984 P.U. (B) 56/1984 Kluang Utara 011984 P.U. (B) 57/1984 Kluang Selatan 011984 P.U. (B) 58/1984 Kota Tinggi 011984 P.U. (B) 59/1984 Mersing 011984 P.U. (B) 60/1984 Batu Pahat Barat 011984 P.U. (B) 61/1984 Batu Pahat Timur 011984 P.U. (B) 62/1984 Segamat Utara 011984 P.U. (B) 63/1984 Segamat Selatan 011984 P.U. (B) 64/1984 Kulai 011984 P.U. (B) 65/1984 Johore Bahru Tengah 011984 P.U. (B) 66/1984 Kawasan Rancangan 031988 J.P.U. 4/1988 Perumahan Kangkar Tebrau, (ss 6 to 35) Johor Bahru Peringkat I, II dan III Taman Perling, Mukim Pulai, 031988 J.P.U. 5/1988 District of Johore Bahru (ss 6 hingga 35) Johore Tenggara Local 011988 J.P.U. 10/1988 Authority KEDAH Municipal Council of— Kota Setar 151978 P.U. (B) 206/1978 

Street, Drainage and Building 155 State Effective date Authority District Local Government Council of— Kuala Muda 151978 P.U. (B) 206/1978 Kulim 151978 P.U. (B) 206/1978 Kubang Pasu 151978 P.U. (B) 206/1978 Baling 151978 P.U. (B) 206/1978 District Council of — Sik 011982 P.U. (B) 727/1981 Padang Terap 011982 P.U. (B) 728/1981 Yan 011982 P.U. (B) 729/1981 Pendang 011982 P.U. (B) 730/1981 Bandar Bahru 011982 P.U. (B) 731/1981 Langkawi 011982 P.U. (B) 732/1981 KELANTAN Municipal Council of— Kota Bharu 011983 P.U. (B) 408/1983 District Council of — Pasir Puteh 011983 P.U. (B) 409/1983 Machang 011983 P.U. (B) 410/1983 Kota Bharu 011983 P.U. (B) 411/1983 Ulu Kelantan 011983 P.U. (B) 412/1983 Bachok 011983 P.U. (B) 413/1983 Tumpat 011983 P.U. (B) 414/1983 Kuala Krai Utara 011983 P.U. (B) 415/1983 Kuala Krai Selatan 011983 P.U. (B) 416/1983 Tanah Merah 011983 P.U. (B) 417/1983 Pasir Mas 011983 P.U. (B) 418/1983 MALACCA Municipal Council of— Central Malacca 011978 P.U. (B) 763/1977 District Council of — Jasin 011982 P.U. (B) 733/1981 Alor Gajah 011982 P.U. (B) 734/1981 

156 Laws of Malaysia ACT 133 State Effective date Authority NEGERI SEMBILAN Municipal Council of— Seremban 011979 P.U. (B) 215/1979 District Council of — Kuala Pilah 011980 P.U. (B) 349/1980 Tampin 011980 P.U. (B) 350/1980 Rembau 011980 P.U. (B) 351/1980 Port Dickson 011980 P.U. (B) 352/1980 Jempol 011980 P.U. (B) 415/1980 Seremban 011985 P.U. (B) 165/1985 PAHANG District Council of — Temerloh 011981 P.U. (B) 348/1981 Bentong 011981 P.U. (B) 349/1981 Raub 011981 P.U. (B) 350/1981 Maran 011993 P.U. (B) 99/1993 Pekan 011993 P.U. (B) 100/1993 Rompin 011993 P.U. (B) 101/1993 Municipal Council of— Kuantan 011981 P.U. (B) 351/1981 District Council of — Cameron Highlands 011982 P.U. (B) 102/1982 Lipis 011982 P.U. (B) 103/1982 Jerantut 011982 P.U. (B) 104/1982 PENANG Municipal Council of— Penang 011980 P.U. (B) 649/1979 Seberang Perai 011980 P.U. (B) 650/1979 PERAK Municipal Council of— Ipoh 011980 P.U. (B) 137/1980 Taiping 011980 P.U. (B) 138/1980 

Street, Drainage and Building 157 State Effective date Authority District Council of — Tapah 011980 P.U. (B) 139/1980 Dinding 011980 P.U. (B) 140/1980 Selama 011980 P.U. (B) 141/1980 Kuala Kangsar 011980 P.U. (B) 142/1980 Lenggong 011980 P.U. (B) 143/1980 Grik 011980 P.U. (B) 144/1980 Kinta Barat 011980 P.U. (B) 145/1980 Krian 011980 P.U. (B) 146/1980 Perak Tengah 011980 P.U. (B) 147/1980 Kroh 011980 P.U. (B) 148/1980 Hilir Perak 011980 P.U. (B) 149/1980 Tanjung Malim 011980 P.U. (B) 150/1980 Kinta Selatan 011980 P.U. (B) 151/1980 PERLIS Municipal Council of— Kangar 011980 P.U. (B) 648/1979 SELANGOR All the Local Authority Areas 011978 P.U. (B) 279/1978 Taman Seri Muda, District 141983 Sel. P.U. 10/1983 of Klang TERENGGANU District Council of — Marang 011984 P.U. (B) 36/1984 Hulu Terengganu 011984 P.U. (B) 37/1984 Kemaman 011984 P.U. (B) 38/1984 Dungun 011984 P.U. (B) 39/1984 Besut 011984 P.U. (B) 40/1984 Municipal Council of— Kuala Terengganu 011984 P.U. (B) 41/1984 ________________________________ 

158 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 133 STREET, DRAINAGE AND BUILDING ACT 1974 LIST OF AMENDMENTS Amending law Short title In force from Act 160 Malaysian Currency (Ringgit) Act 1975 291975 Act A324 Criminal Procedure Code (Amendment and Extension) Act 1976 011976 Act A435 Street, Drainage and Building (Amendment) Act 1978 031978 Act A867 Street, Drainage and Building (Amendment) Act 1993 See P.U. (B) 84/1994* Act A903 Street, Drainage and Building (Amendment) Act 1994 011995 Act A1286 Street, Drainage and Building (Amendment) Act 2007 122007 Johore [P.U.(B) 121/2007; Kedah [P.U. (B) 122/2007]; Kelantan [P.U. (B) 123/2007]; Malacca [P.U. (B) 124/2007]; N.Sembilan [P.U. (B) 125/2007]; Pahang [P.U. (B) 126/2007]; Penang [P.U. (B) 127/2007]; Perak [P.U. (B) 128/2007]; Perlis [P.U. (B) 129/2007]; Terengganu [P.U. (B) *NOTE—The date of coming into force for every District Council is different –see Schedule in P.U. (B) 84/1994 Street, Drainage and Building (Amendment) Act 1993. 

Street, Drainage and Building 159 Amending law Short title In force from 130/2007]; Selangor [P.U. (B) 131/2007]; Federal Territory of Kuala Lumpur and Federal Territory of Putrajaya [P.U.(B) 152/2007] P.U. (A) 394/2010 Federal Territory of Labuan (Extension and Modification of the Street, Drainage and Bulding Act 1974) Order 2010 012011 Act A1312 Street, Drainage and Building (Amendment) Act 2007 012011 – [P.U. (B) 492/2011] Federal Territory of Kuala Lumpur and Federal Territory of Putrajaya 012011 [P.U.(B) 489/2011] Perlis, Kedah,Pahang, N. Sembilan, Malacca and Johore Act A1588 Street, Drainage and Building (Amendment) Act 2019 272019 – [P.U. (B) 621/2019] Perlis, Kedah, Penang, Perak, Selangor, Pahang, N. Sembilan, Malacca, Johore, Terengganu and Kelantan 

160 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 133 STREET, DRAINAGE AND BUILDING ACT 1974 LIST OF SECTIONS AMENDED Section Amending authority In force from 3 Act A867 Act A903 Act A1286 Act A1588 P. U. (B) 84/1994* 011995 122007 Johore [P.U.(B) 121/2007; Kedah [P.U. (B) 122/2007]; Kelantan [P.U. (B) 123/2007]; Malacca [P.U. (B) 124/2007]; N.Sembilan [P.U. (B) 125/2007]; Pahang [P.U. (B) 126/2007]; Penang [P.U. (B) 127/2007]; Perak [P.U. (B) 128/2007]; Perlis [P.U. (B) 129/2007]; Terengganu [P.U. (B) 130/2007]; Selangor [P.U. (B) 131/2007]; Federal Territory of Kuala Lumpur and Federal Territory of Putrajaya [P.U.(B) 152/2007] 272019 [P.U. (B) 621/2019] Perlis, Kedah, Penang, Perak, Selangor, Pahang, N. Sembilan, Malacca, Johore, Terengganu and Kelantan 39 Act A1588 272019 [P.U. (B) 621/2019] Perlis, Kedah, Penang, Perak, Selangor, Pahang, N. Sembilan, Malacca, Johore, Terengganu and Kelantan 46 Act A435 Act A867 031978 P. U. (B) 84/1994* 49 Act A867 P. U. (B) 84/1994* 51 Act A867 P. U. (B) 84/1994* 53 Act A867 P. U. (B) 84/1994* 54 Act A867 P. U. (B) 84/1994* 

Street, Drainage and Building 161 Section Amending authority In force from 55 Act A867 P. U. (B) 84/1994* 58 Act A867 Act A1286 P. U. (B) 84/1994* 122007 Johore [P.U.(B) 121/2007; Kedah [P.U. (B) 122/2007]; Kelantan [P.U. (B) 123/2007]; Malacca [P.U. (B) 124/2007]; N.Sembilan [P.U. (B) 125/2007]; Pahang [P.U. (B) 126/2007]; Penang [P.U. (B) 127/2007]; Perak [P.U. (B) 128/2007]; Perlis [P.U. (B) 129/2007]; Terengganu [P.U. (B) 130/2007]; Selangor [P.U. (B) 131/2007]; Federal Territory of Kuala Lumpur and Federal Territory of Putrajaya [P.U.(B) 152/2007] 60 Act A867 P. U. (B) 84/1994* 62 Act A867 P. U. (B) 84/1994* 63 Act A867 P. U. (B) 84/1994* 64 Act A867 P. U. (B) 84/1994* 65 Act A1286 122007 Johore [P.U.(B) 121/2007; Kedah [P.U. (B) 122/2007]; Kelantan [P.U. (B) 123/2007]; Malacca [P.U. (B) 124/2007]; N.Sembilan [P.U. (B) 125/2007]; Pahang [P.U. (B) 126/2007]; Penang [P.U. (B) 127/2007]; Perak [P.U. (B) 128/2007]; Perlis [P.U. (B) 129/2007]; Terengganu [P.U. (B) 130/2007]; Selangor [P.U. (B) 131/2007]; Federal Territory of Kuala Lumpur and Federal Territory of Putrajaya [P.U.(B) 152/2007] 70 Act A867 Act A903 Act A1286 P. U. (B) 84/1994* 011995 122007 Johore [P.U.(B) 121/2007; Kedah [P.U. (B) 122/2007]; Kelantan [P.U. (B) 123/2007]; Malacca [P.U. (B) 124/2007]; N.Sembilan [P.U. (B) 125/2007]; Pahang [P.U. (B) 126/2007]; Penang [P.U. (B) 127/2007]; Perak [P.U. (B) 128/2007]; Perlis [P.U. (B) 129/2007]; Terengganu [P.U. (B) 130/2007]; Selangor 

162 Laws of Malaysia ACT 133 Section Amending authority In force from Act A1588 [P.U. (B) 131/2007]; Federal Territory of Kuala Lumpur and Federal Territory of Putrajaya [P.U.(B) 152/2007] 272019 [P.U. (B) 621/2019] Perlis, Kedah, Penang, Perak, Selangor, Pahang, N. Sembilan, Malacca, Johore, Terengganu and Kelantan 70A Act A435 Act A903 Act A1286 031978 011995 122007 Johore [P.U.(B) 121/2007; Kedah [P.U. (B) 122/2007]; Kelantan [P.U. (B) 123/2007]; Malacca [P.U. (B) 124/2007]; N.Sembilan [P.U. (B) 125/2007]; Pahang [P.U. (B) 126/2007]; Penang [P.U. (B) 127/2007]; Perak [P.U. (B) 128/2007]; Perlis [P.U. (B) 129/2007]; Terengganu [P.U. (B) 130/2007]; Selangor [P.U. (B) 131/2007]; Federal Territory of Kuala Lumpur and Federal Territory of Putrajaya [P.U.(B) 152/2007] 70B Act A903 Act A1286 011995 122007 Johore [P.U.(B) 121/2007; Kedah [P.U. (B) 122/2007]; Kelantan [P.U. (B) 123/2007]; Malacca [P.U. (B) 124/2007]; N.Sembilan [P.U. (B) 125/2007]; Pahang [P.U. (B) 126/2007]; Penang [P.U. (B) 127/2007]; Perak [P.U. (B) 128/2007]; Perlis [P.U. (B) 129/2007]; Terengganu [P.U. (B) 130/2007]; Selangor [P.U. (B) 131/2007]; Federal Territory of Kuala Lumpur and Federal Territory of Putrajaya [P.U.(B) 152/2007] 70C Act A903 011995 71 Act A903 011995 75 Act A435 Act A903 Act A1286 031978 011995 122007 Johore [P.U.(B) 121/2007; Kedah [P.U. (B) 122/2007]; Kelantan [P.U. (B) 123/2007]; Malacca [P.U. (B) 

Street, Drainage and Building 163 Section Amending authority In force from 124/2007]; N.Sembilan [P.U. (B) 125/2007]; Pahang [P.U. (B) 126/2007]; Penang [P.U. (B) 127/2007]; Perak [P.U. (B) 128/2007]; Perlis [P.U. (B) 129/2007]; Terengganu [P.U. (B) 130/2007]; Selangor [P.U. (B) 131/2007]; Federal Territory of Kuala Lumpur and Federal Territory of Putrajaya [P.U.(B) 152/2007] 77 Act A867 P. U. (B) 84/1994* 81 Act A867 P. U. (B) 84/1994* 85 Act A903 011995 85A Act A903 Act A1286 Act A1588 011995 122007 Johore [P.U.(B) 121/2007; Kedah [P.U. (B) 122/2007]; Kelantan [P.U. (B) 123/2007]; Malacca [P.U. (B) 124/2007]; N.Sembilan [P.U. (B) 125/2007]; Pahang [P.U. (B) 126/2007]; Penang [P.U. (B) 127/2007]; Perak [P.U. (B) 128/2007]; Perlis [P.U. (B) 129/2007]; Terengganu [P.U. (B) 130/2007]; Selangor [P.U. (B) 131/2007]; Federal Territory of Kuala Lumpur and Federal Territory of Putrajaya [P.U.(B) 152/2007] 272019 [P.U. (B) 621/2019] Perlis, Kedah, Penang, Perak, Selangor, Pahang, N. Sembilan, Malacca, Johore, Terengganu and Kelantan 100 Act A903 011995 121 Act A903 011995 123 Act A1286 122007 Johore [P.U.(B) 121/2007; Kedah [P.U. (B) 122/2007]; Kelantan [P.U. (B) 123/2007]; Malacca [P.U. (B) 124/2007]; N.Sembilan [P.U. (B) 125/2007]; Pahang [P.U. (B) 126/2007]; Penang [P.U. (B) 127/2007]; Perak [P.U. (B) 128/2007]; Perlis [P.U. (B) 129/2007]; Terengganu [P.U. (B) 130/2007]; Selangor 

164 Laws of Malaysia ACT 133 Section Amending authority In force from [P.U. (B) 131/2007]; Federal Territory of Kuala Lumpur and Federal Territory of Putrajaya [P.U.(B) 152/2007] 127 Act A1286 122007 Johore [P.U.(B) 121/2007; Kedah [P.U. (B) 122/2007]; Kelantan [P.U. (B) 123/2007]; Malacca [P.U. (B) 124/2007]; N.Sembilan [P.U. (B) 125/2007]; Pahang [P.U. (B) 126/2007]; Penang [P.U. (B) 127/2007]; Perak [P.U. (B) 128/2007]; Perlis [P.U. (B) 129/2007]; Terengganu [P.U. (B) 130/2007]; Selangor [P.U. (B) 131/2007]; Federal Territory of Kuala Lumpur and Federal Territory of Putrajaya [P.U.(B) 152/2007] 132 Act A867 P.U. (B) 84/1994* 133 Act A867 Act A903 Act A1312 Act A1588 P.U. (B) 84/1994* 011995 012011 - [P.U.(B) 492/2011] Federal Territory of Kuala Lumpur dan Federal Territory of Putrajaya 012011 [P.U.(B) 489/2011] Perlis, Kedah,Pahang, N. Sembilan, Malacca and Johore 272019 [P.U. (B) 621/2019] Perlis, Kedah, Penang, Perak, Selangor, Pahang, N. Sembilan, Malacca, Johore, Terengganu and Kelantan Schedule Act A435 031978 *NOTE—The date of coming into force for every District Council is different -see Schedule in P.U. (B) 84/1994 Street, Drainage and Building (Amendment) Act 1993.