LAWS OF MALAYSIA ONLINE VERSION OF UPDATED TEXT OF REPRINT Act 700 ENFORCEMENT AGENCY INTEGRITY COMMISSION ACT 2009 As at 8 September 2023 This text is ONLY AN UPDATED TEXT of the Enforcement Agency Integrity Commission Act 2009 by the A ttorney General’s Chambers. Unless and until reprinted pursuant to the powers of the Commissioner of Law Revision under subsection 14(1) of the Revision of Laws Act 1968 [Act 1], this text is NOT AN AUTHENTIC TEXT. 

2 ENFORCEMENT AGENCY INTEGRITY COMMISSION ACT 2009 Date of Royal Assent … … … … 19 August 2009 Date of publication in the Gazette … … … … 3 September 2009 Latest amendment made by P.U. (A) 270/2023 which came into operation on … … … … subparagraphs 2(a) and (b)— 8 September 2023; subparagraph 2(c) —1 July 2023 PREVIOUS REPRINTS First Reprint … … … … 2019 

3 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 700 ENFORCEMENT AGENCY INTEGRITY COMMISSION ACT 2009 ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS PART I PRELIMINARY Section 1. Short title, commencement and application 2. Interpretation PART II ESTABLISHMENT AND FUNCTIONS OF THE COMMISSION 3. Establishment of the Commission 4. Functions of the Commission 5. Constitution of the Commission 6. Remuneration 7. Term of office 8. Vacation of office 9. Meetings of the Commission 10. Temporary exercise of functions of Chairman 11. Disclosure of interest 12. Exercise of functions and powers of the Commission by a Commissioner 

4 Laws Of Malaysia ACT 700 PART III ADMINISTRATION Section 13. The Secretary 14. Officers and staff of the Commission 15. Consultants 16. Complaints Committee 17. Task Force 18. Other committees 19. Authority card 20. Use of staff, facilities or services 21. Cooperation with other agencies PART IV DEALING WITH COMPLAINTS 22. General power of the Commission in dealing with complaints 23. Complaints of misconduct 24. Scope of misconduct 25. Preliminary investigation 26. Findings of the Complaints Committee 27. Action by Commission after Complaints Committee’s findings 28. Commission may commence investigation on own initiative 29. Prevention of dual investigation 30. Findings of the Commission after investigation PART V INVESTIGATION POWERS 31. Powers of the Commission relating to investigation 32. Power to obtain documents or other things 33. Legal obligation to give information 

Enforcement Agency Integrity Commission 5 Section 34. Hearings 35. Public and closed hearings 36. Right of appearance of interested person 37. Legal representation 38. Examination of witnesses 39. Privileged documents, answers, etc. 40. Power to search with warrant 41. Search and seizure without warrant 42. List of things seized 43. Release of seized conveyance, etc. PART VI OFFENCES 44. Threats against witnesses 45. Contempt PART VII GENERAL 46. Funds 47. Statutory Bodies (Accounts and Annual Reports) Act 1980 48. Annual report 49. Protection of Commissioners, officers and staff of the Commission 50. Public Authorities Protection Act 1948 51. Public servant 52. Obligation of secrecy 53. Institution and conduct of prosecution 54. Regulations 55. Power of Prime Minister to amend Schedule SCHEDULE 

 

7 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 700 ENFORCEMENT AGENCY INTEGRITY COMMISSION ACT 2009 An Act to provide for the establishment of the Enforcement Age ncy Integrity Commission and to provide for its functions and powers and for other matters connected therewith. [1 April 2011, P.U. (B) 148/2011] ENACTED by the Parliament of Malaysia as follows: PART I PRELIMINARY Short title, commencement and application 1. (1) This Act may be cited as t he Enforcement Agency Integrity Commission Act 2009. (2) This Act comes into oper ation on a date to be appointed by the Yang di-Pertuan Agong by notification in the Gazette. (3) This Act applies to complain ts made or referred to the Commission in respect of misco nduct occurring on or after the commencement of this Act. (4) This Act shall apply to an e nforcement agency as prescribed by the Prime Minister in the Schedule. (5) Notwithstanding subsection (4), this Act shall not apply to the Malaysian Anti -Corruption Commission established under the Malaysian Anti-Corruption Commission Act 2009 [Act 694]. 

8 Laws Of Malaysia ACT 700 Interpretation 2. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires— “enforcement agency” means— (a) any Ministry, Department, Agency or other body set up by the Federal Government, including a unit, section, division, department or agency of such Ministry, Department, Agency or body, conferred with enforcement functions by any written law or having enforc ement powers; (b) a body established by a Federal law which is conferred with enforcement functions by that Federal law or any other written law; or (c) a unit, section, division, department or agency of a body established by Federal law having enforcement functions; “Complaints Committee” means the Complaints Committee established under section 16; “disciplinary offence” includes any act or inaction that constitutes or may constitute grounds for disciplinary action under any written law; “Task Force” means a Task Force established under section 17; “enforcement officer” means an officer of— (a) an enforcement agency; or (b) the joint service established under Article 133 of the Federal Constitution who is performing an enforcement function; “Commissioner” means the Chairman, Deputy Chairman and other Commissioner appointed under section 5; 

Enforcement Agency Integrity Commission 9 “Disciplinary Authority”, in relation to an enforcement officer in— (a) a Federal Ministry, means the appropriate Disciplinary Authority established under Part X of the Fe deral Constitution but do es not include the Armed Forces Council established u nder Article 137 of the Federal Constitution; (b) a Federal statutory body, means the Disciplinary Authority established— (i) under the Federal law in force relating to the discipline of , and the imposition of surcharge on, officers of statutory bodies; or (ii) by any law by which a statutory body is incorporated; or (c) a joint service pursuant to Article 133 of the Federal Constitution, means the Disciplinary Authority established under Article 139 of the Federal Constitution; “misconduct” means any act or inaction as specified in section 24; “Commission” means t he Enforcement Agency Integrity Commission established under section 3. PART II ESTABLISHMENT AND FUNCTIONS OF THE COMMISSION Establishment of the Commission 3. (1) A body corporate to be known as the Enforcement Agency Integrity Commission is established. (2) The Commission shall have perpetual succession and a common seal. 

10 Laws Of Malaysia ACT 700 (3) The Commission may sue and be sued in its name. (4) Subject to and for the purpo ses of this Act, the Commission may, upon such terms as the Commission deems fit— (a) enter into contracts; (b) acquire, purchase, take, hold and enjoy movable and immovable property of every description; and (c) convey, as sign, surrender, yield up, charge, mortgage, demise, reassign, transfer or otherwise dispose of, or deal with, any movable or immovable property or any interest in the property vested in the Commission. Functions of the Commission 4. (1) The functions of the Commission are as follows: (a) to receive complaints of misconduct from the public against an enforcement officer or against an enforcement agency in general and to investigate into and conduct hearings on such complaints; (b) to formulate and put in pl ace mechanisms for the detection, investigation and prevention of misconduct by an enforcement officer; (c) to protect the interest of the public by preventing and dealing with misconduct of an enforcement officer; (d) to provide for the auditing and monitoring of particular aspects of the operations and procedures of an enforcement agency; (e) to promote awareness of, enhancement of, and education in relation to, integrity within an enforcement agency and to reduce misconduct amongst enforcement officers; 

Enforcement Agency Integrity Commission 11 (f) to assist the Government in formulating legislation, or to recommend administrative measures to the Government or an enforcement agency, in the promotion of integrity and the abolishment of misconduct amongst enforcement officers; (g) to study and verify any infringe ment of enforcement procedures and to make any necessary recommendations relating thereto; and (h) to make site visits to the premises of an enforcement agency, including visiting police stations and lockups in accordance with the procedures under any written law, and make any necessary recommendations relating thereto. (2) The Commission shall have power to do all things expedient or reasonably necessary for, or in cidental to, the performance of its functions. Constitution of the Commission 5. (1) The Yang di -Pertuan Ag ong shall, on the advice of the Prime Minister, appoint not mo re than seven Commissioners, of whom there shall be a Chairman and a Deputy Chairman, for such period and on such terms and co nditions as may be specified in the instrument of appointment. (2) No person shall be eligible to be appointed as a Commissioner if he is or was an enforcement officer. (3) The appointment of Commissioners under this section shall be published in the Gazette. Remuneration 6. A Commissioner shall be paid s uch remuneration and allowances as the Yang di-Pertuan Agong may determine. 

12 Laws Of Malaysia ACT 700 Term of office 7. (1) Subject to subsection (2), a Commissioner holds office for a term not exceeding three years as may be specified in his instrument of appointment, but he is eligible for re-appointment. (2) A person may not hold the office of a Commissioner for more than two terms consecutively. (3) A Commissioner may at any t ime resign his office by letter addressed to the Yang di-Pertuan Agong. (4) The appointment of a Commissioner may at any ti me be revoked by the Yang di-Pertuan Agong. Vacation of office 8. The office of a Commissioner shall be vacated if— (a) he dies; (b) there has been proved against him, or he has been convicted on, a charge in respect of— (i) an offence involving fraud, dishonesty or moral turpitude; (ii) an offence under any law relating to corruption; or (iii) any other offence punishable with imprisonment (in itself only or in addition to or in lieu of a fine) for more than two years; (c) he becomes a bankrupt; (d) he is of unsound mind or is otherwise incapable of discharging his duties; 

Enforcement Agency Integrity Commission 13 (e) he absents himself from three consecutive meetings of the Commission without leave of the Chairman; (f) his resignation has been accepted by the Yang di -Pertuan Agong; (g) his appointment has been revoked by the Yang di -Pertuan Agong; or (h) his term of appointment has expired. Meetings of the Commission 9. (1) The Commission shall me et as often as may be necessary for the performance of its functions. (2) The Chairman of the Commission shall preside at all meetings of the Commission. (3) The quorum of the Commission shall be four. (4) Every Commissioner present shall be entitled to one vote and if on a question to be det ermined by the Commission there is an equality of votes, the Chairman shall have a casting vote. (5) The Commission shall d etermine the conduct of its own proceedings. (6) The Commission shall cause minutes of all its meetings to be maintained and kept in a proper form. (7) The Commiss ion may invite any person to attend a meeting for the purpose of advising it on any matter under discussion but that person shall not be entitled to vote at the meeting or be present during the making of a decision. 

14 Laws Of Malaysia ACT 700 Temporary exercise of functions of Chairman 10. Notwithstanding subsection 9(2), where the Chairman is for any reason unable to perform his functions, or during any period of vacancy in the office of th e Chairman, the Deputy Chairman or, if he is unavailable, any Comm issioner appointed by the other Commissioners, shall perform the functions of the Chairman. Disclosure of interest 11. A Commissioner having, direct ly or indirectly, by himself, a member of his family or his associ ate, any interest in any matter under discussion by the Commission or in any proceedings or hearing before the Commission, shall disclose to the Commission the fact and nature of his intere st and such disclosure shall be recorded in the minutes or notes of proceedings or hearing and, unless specifically authorized by the Chairman, the Commissioner shall take no part in any discuss ion, proceedings or hearing, or in the making of any decision by the Commission relating to the matter. Exercise of functions an d powers of the Commission by a Commissioner 12. The functions and powers of th e Commission are exercisable by a Commissioner unless the Commission determines otherwise. PART III ADMINISTRATION The Secretary 13. (1) The Commission shall ha ve a Secretary who shall be the chief executive officer of the Commission. (2) The Secretary shall be appointed by the Commission. 

Enforcement Agency Integrity Commission 15 (3) The Secretary shall be appointed on such terms and conditions and shall have such functions as the Commission may determine. Officers and staff of the Commission 14. (1) There shall be appointed su ch number of officers and staff of the Commission as may be nec essary to assist the Commission in discharging its functions effectiv ely and efficiently and for the purpose of carrying into effect the provisions of this Act. (2) The Co mmission may appoint an y officers from any enforcement agency on secondment basis to be its investigators. (3) The Commission may appoin t such number of legal officers as may be necessary who shall be seconded from amongst offi cers of the Judicial and L egal Service or appointed from amongst advocates and solicitors to assist the Commission. (4) An officer of the Commission having directly or indirectly, by himself, a member of his family or his associate, any interest or connection to an enforcement o fficer under investigation by the Commission shall disclose his inte rest or connection forthwith to a Commissioner and shall not b e involved in any investigation conducted by the Commission as regards that enforcement officer. (5) The Commission may, with the approval of the Yang di- Pertuan Agong, make regulations with respect to the conditions of service of its officers and staff. Consultants 15. (1) The Commission may en gage persons, including retired or former members of an enforc ement agency, o n such terms and conditions as the Commission deems fit, as consultants or to perform such services as it deems appropriate. 

16 Laws Of Malaysia ACT 700 (2) A person engaged under subsection (1) having directly or indirectly, by himself, a member of his family or his a ssociate, any interest or connection to an enforcement officer under investigation by the Commission shall disclose his interest or connection forthwith to a Commiss ioner and shall not be involved in any investigation conducted by the Commission as regards that enforcement officer. Complaints Committee 16. (1) The Commission shall e stablish a Complaints Committee which shall consist of such numbe r of officers of the Commission as the Commission deems necessary or expedient. (2) The Complaints Committee shall ha ve the following duties and responsibilities: (a) to receive complaints of misconduct from any person to the Commission; (b) to keep and maintain a register of all complaints received by the Commission; (c) to assess the complaints in accordance with section 23; (d) to determine the nature of the misconduct; (e) to conduct any preliminary investigation into the complaint under section 25; and (f) to inform the complainant of the status of his complaint and the actions taken after the Commission has made its findings. Task Force 17. (1) The Commission may establish such number of Task Forces as it deems necessary to assist t he Commission in performing its functions effectively and efficiently under this Act. 

Enforcement Agency Integrity Commission 17 (2) The members of a Task For ce may comprise the officers of the Commission and the consultants engaged under section 15. (3) A Task Force shall pe rform such functions and duties conferred upon the Task Force under this Act. (4) The members of a Task Force sha ll have all the powers of investigation as contained in the Criminal Procedure Code [Act 593] and such powers shall be in addition to the powers provided for under this Act and not in derogation thereof. (5) The Commission may establish joint task forces w ith any other authorities as it deems necessary. Other committees 18. The Commission may establ ish such other committees as it deems necessary or expedient to assist it in the performance of its functions. Authority card 19. (1) A certificate of appointment in the form of an authority card shall be issued to a Co mmissioner, the chief executive officer, other officers of the Commission and a member of a Task Force, and such card shall be signed by the Chairman of the Commission. (2) The Commissioner, chief e xecutive officer, other officer of the Commission or a memb er of a Task Force acting under this Act shall, on demand, declare his office and produce to the person against whom he is acting or from whom he seeks any information the authority card issued to him under subsection (1). Use of staff, facilities or services 20. (1) The Commission may arrange for the use of the services of— 

18 Laws Of Malaysia ACT 700 (a) any staff or facilities of a government department or a local or statutory authority; or (b) any enforcement officer to cooperate with, or assist, a Task Force in the exercise of its duties, or to assist the Commission in the performance of its functions under this Act. (2) It shall be the duty o f the government departments or local or statutory authority or enf orcement officer referred to in subsection (1) to comply with this section. Cooperation with other agencies 21. (1) In performing its investigativ e functions, the Commission may work in cooperation with any other investigation and law enforcement agencies and any State or Fe deral government departme nts or other persons as the Commission deems appropriate. (2) In performing its other rel evant functions, the Commission may work in cooperation with educa tional institutions and such other persons as the Commission deems appropriate. (3) The Commiss ion m ay consult with and disseminate intelligence and information to any other investigation and law enforcement agencies and such other persons, including any t ask force, as the Commission deems appropriate. (4) If the Commission dissemina tes intellige nce or information to any agency or person under th is section on the understanding that the intelligence or informat ion is confidential, the agency or person is subject to the secrec y provisions in relation to the intelligence or information. 

Enforcement Agency Integrity Commission 19 PART IV DEALING WITH COMPLAINTS General power of the Commission in dealing with complaints 22. (1) The Commission shal l have power to investigate any complaints of misconduct it recei ves from a member of the public or that are referred to it by any person. (2) The Commission shall hav e power to refer any complaints of misconduct it receives or that are referred to it under subsection (1) of a disciplinary nature to the appropriate Disciplinary Authority. (3) The Commission shall hav e power to refer any c omplaints of misconduct it receives or that are referred to it under subsection (1) of a criminal nature to the Public Prosecutor. Complaints of misconduct 23. (1) Any person may make or refer a complaint of misconduct against an enforcement agency o r an enforcement officer to the Commission. (2) A complaint shall be made i n writing and shall include the following: (a) particulars of the complainant; (b) particulars of the enforcement officer, if identifiable, whose action or inaction is the basis of the complaint, or if not identifiable, a description or any other particulars that are sufficient to enable him to be identified; (c) particulars of the misconduct complained of, including the date of and place where the misconduct occurred; 

20 Laws Of Malaysia ACT 700 (d) particulars of the p erson affected by the act or inaction of the enforcement officer, if that person is not the complainant; (e) particulars of any other person who was present during or involved in the act or inaction complained of, if any; and (f) any other details, including pho tographs and documents, that the complainant deems appropriate or necessary to include in the complaint. (3) Notwithstanding subsection (2), a complaint shall not be rejected for want of any of the part iculars or details specified in paragraphs (2)(a) to (f) unless the complaint becomes impossible or impracticable to be assessed without such particulars or details. (4) The Complaints Committee s hall immediately record all complaints received by th e Commission in the Register of Complaints and assess the complaints as to whether— (a) the conduct complained of is within the scope of misconduct as specified in section 24; (b) the complaint is frivolous, vexatious or not in good faith; (c) the subject matter of the complaint is trivial; (d) the misconduct complained o f occurred at too remote a time to justify an investigation; (e) there is or was available to the complainant an alternative and satisfactory means of redress; and (f) the subject matter of the complaint has been finally determined by any court or is the subject matter of any proceedings pending in any court, including any appeal proceedings. 

Enforcement Agency Integrity Commission 21 Scope of misconduct 24. (1) The Commission may receive, or be referred, complaints on the following: (a) any act or inaction by an enforcement officer which is contrary to any written law; (b) any act or inaction of an enforcement officer which, in the opinion of the Commission, is unreasonable, unjust, oppressive or improperly discriminatory; (c) any act or inaction of an enforcement officer which is, in the opinion of the Comm ission, committed on improper motives, irrelevant grounds or irrelevant consideration; (d) any act or inaction of an enforcement officer which is based on a mistake of law or fact; (e) any act or inaction of an enforcement officer of which grounds should have been given but were not given; (f) the failure of an enforcement officer to follow rules and procedures laid down by law or by the appropriate authority; and (g) the commission of any criminal offence by an enforcement officer. (2) The misconduct of an enforcem ent officer may be investigated by the Commission notwithstanding that— (a) the act or inaction also involves persons who are not enforcement officers; or (b) the act or inaction occurs while the enforcement officer was not on official duty. 

22 Laws Of Malaysia ACT 700 Preliminary investigation 25. A preliminary investigation may be conducted by the Complaints Committee for the purpose of o btaining further information in order to determine— (a) the nature of the misconduct complained of; and (b) whether the Commission should proceed with a f ull investigation into the complaint. Findings of the Complaints Committee 26. (1) Where the Complaint s Committee is satisfied that a disciplinary offence is disclosed and that the complaint would be better dealt with by the appropri ate Disciplinary A uthority, the Complaints Committee shall immediat ely make a report to the Commission of the complaint to gether with a recommendation to refer the complaint to the appropr iate Disciplinary Authority for the Commission’s consideration. (2) Where the Compl aints Committ ee is satisfied that an offence under Part IV of the Malaysian Anti-Corruption Commission Act 2009 is disclosed, the Complai nts Committee shall immediately make a report to the Commission of the complaint together with a recommendation to refe r the c omplaint to the Malaysian Anti -Corruption Commission for the Commission’s consideration. (3) Where the Complaint s Committee is satisfied that a misconduct as specified in section 24 is disclosed and that there is a basis for the Commission to commence a full investigation, the Complaints Committee sha ll immediately make a report to the Commission of the complaint together with a recommendation for the Commission to commence a full investigation into the misconduct for its consideration. 

Enforcement Agency Integrity Commission 23 (4) Where the Complaints Committee is satisfied that— (a) the complaint does not fall within the scope of misconduct as specified in section 24; (b) the complaint is of a frivolous or vexatious nature, or it was not made in good faith; (c) the subject matter of the complaint is trivial; (d) the misconduct complained of occurred too remote a time to justify an investigation; (e) there is or was available to the complainant an alternative and satisfactory means of redress; or (f) the subject matter of the complaint has been finally determined by any court or is the subject matter of any proceedings pending in any court, including any appeal proceedings, the Complaints Committee shall make a report to the Commission of the complaint and its finding , including the grounds for its finding, and make a recommendation for the Commission to reject the complaint. Action by Commission after Complaints Committee’s findings 27. (1) Where the Commission, after considering the report and the recommendation of the Complaints Committee under subsection 26(1), agrees with the r ecommendation of the Complaints Committee and the Commission does not wish to commence a full investigation into the compla int, the Commission shall refer the complaint to the appropriate Disciplinary Authority for its action. (2) Where the Commission, after considering the report and the recommendation of the Complaints Committee under subsection 26(2), agrees with the r ecommendation of the Complaints Committee, the Commission shall refer the complaint to the Malaysian Anti-Corruption Commission for its action. 

24 Laws Of Malaysia ACT 700 (3) Where the Commission has referred a complaint to the appropriate Disciplinary Author ity under subsection (1) or the Malaysian Anti-Corruption Commission under subsection (2) for action, the Disciplinary Aut hority o r the Malaysian Anti -Corruption Commission, as the case may be, shall conduct its own investigation and communicate its finding to the Commission within thirty days from the date of receipt of the complaint from the Commission. (4) Where the Com mission, after considering the report and the recommendation of the Complaints Committee under subsection 26(3), agrees with the recommendation of the Complaints Committee and is of the opinion that it should commence a full investigation into the complaint, the Commission shall inform— (a) in the case where the complaint of misconduct is of a disciplinary nature, the appropriate Disciplinary Authority; or (b) in the case where the complaint of misconduct is of a criminal nature, the relevant enforcement agency a nd the Public Prosecutor, and commence the investigation into the complaint under this Act. (5) Where the Commission, after considering the report, finding and recommendation of the Complaints Committee under subsection 26(4), agrees with th e finding a nd recommendation of the Complaints Committee a nd the Commission does not wish to investigate the complaint, the Commission shall reject the complaint. (6) If the Commission is no t satisfied with the report and recommendation or finding of the Complaint s Committee under subsection 26(1), (2), (3) or (4), the Commission shall direct a Task Force to make further investigation into the complaint. (7) The Task Force shall report the findings of its investigation to the Commission within fourte en days for a final decision of the Commission. (8) The Commission shall inform the complainant of the action taken under this section. 

Enforcement Agency Integrity Commission 25 Commission may commence investigation on own initiative 28. Without prejudice to section 27, the Commission may commence an inv estigation in respect of a misconduct it becomes aware of on its own initiative only if the C ommission is satisfied that the matter is of significant interest to the public or that it is in the public interest to do so. Prevention of dual investigation 29. On being informed by the Commission under subsecti on 27(4) that the Commission is investig ating a complaint of misconduct of a disciplinary nature or a cr iminal nature, the Disciplinary Authority or the relevant enforcement agency, as the case may be— (a) shall not conduct any disciplinary proceedings or investigation into a subject matter which is the same subject matter of the complaint of misconduct; or (b) where a complaint as regards the same subject matter had been made or referred to the Disciplinary Authority or to the enforcement agency by any other person and the Disciplinary Authority or enforcement agency is conducting disciplinary proceedings or an investigation into the complaint against the enforcement officer concerned, shall immediately cease its disciplinary proceedings or investigation into that complaint. Findings of the Commission after investigation 30. (1) Where the Commission has c ompleted its investigation into any complaint of misconduct under this Act and finds that— (a) the misconduct complained of is not substantiated, it shall record its finding and inform the complainant; (b) the misconduct constitutes a disciplinary offence, it shall record its finding and make a recommendation as to the 

26 Laws Of Malaysia ACT 700 punishment that should be imposed upon the enforcement officer concerned and refer the matter to the appropriate Disciplinary Authority for its action; or (c) the misconduct constitutes a criminal offence, it shall record its finding and compile its report and the investigation papers and refer the matter to the Public Prosecutor. (2) Where the Commissi on has referred a matter to the appropriate Disciplinary Authority under paragraph (1) (b), the Disciplinary Authority shall info rm the Commission of its action and the grounds of its decision within f ourteen days from the date of receipt of the finding and recommendation. (3) Where the Commission has referred a matter to the Public Prosecutor under paragraph (1) (c), the Public Prosecutor shall communicate his decision to the Commission within fourteen days from the date of receipt of the finding, report and investigation papers. (4) Where a charge is pref erred by the Public Prosecutor, any evidence obtained by the Commission under this Act may, notwithstanding the provisions of an y other written l aw to the contrary, be used for the purpose of criminal proceedings. (5) The Commission shall make pu blic its finding and inform the complainant of its finding and any a ction taken by the Disciplinary Authority or the Public Prosecutor under this section. PART V INVESTIGATION POWERS Powers of the Commission relating to investigation 31. (1) The Commission shall, for the purposes of an investigation under this Act, have the power— (a) to conduct hearings if the Commission considers necessary or desirable to do so; 

Enforcement Agency Integrity Commission 27 (b) to procure and receive all such evidence, whether written or oral, and to examine all such persons as witnesses as the Commission considers necessary or desirable to procure or examine; (c) to require the evidence, whether written or oral, of an y witnesses to be made on oath or affirmation (such oath or affirmation to be that which could be required of the witness if he was giving evidence in a court of law) or by statutory declaration; (d) to summon any person residing in Malaysia to attend any meeting or hearing of the Commission to give evidence or produce any document or other thing in his possession; (e) to issue a warrant of arrest to compel the attendance of any person who, after having been summoned to attend, fails to do so and does not excuse such failure to the satisfaction of the Commission, and to order such person to pay all costs which may have been occasioned in compelling his attendance or by reason of his refusal to obey the summons, and also to fine such person a sum not exceeding five thousand ringgit; (f) to fine in a sum not exceeding five thousand ringgit any person who, being required by the Commission to give evidence on affirmation or to produce a document or other thing, refuses to do so and does not excuse such refusal to the satisfaction of the Commission; (g) to admit, notwithstanding any of the provisions of the Evidence Act 1950 [ Act 56 ], any evidence, whether written or oral, which may be inadmissible in civil or criminal proceedings; (h) to award any person who has attended any mee ting or hearing of the Commission such sums as in the opinion of the Commission may have been reasonably incurred by such person by reason of such attendance; and 

28 Laws Of Malaysia ACT 700 (i) to admit or exclude the public from such hearing or any part thereof. (2) Notwithstanding paragraph (1)(d), where a person summoned is a person under detention unde r any written law, such summons shall be issued in accordance with the laws applicable in relation to the place of detention. Power to obtain documents or other things 32. (1) For the purposes of an inv estigation, the Commission may, by notice in writing served on a person require the person— (a) to attend, at a time and place specified in the notice before a Commissioner or a member of the Task Force as specified in the notice; and (b) to produce any document or evidence, as specified in the notice. (2) The notice may provide that t he requirement may be satisfied by some other person acting on behalf of the pe rson on whom it was imposed. (3) A person shall not, without reasonable excuse, refuse or fail to comply with a notice served on him under this section. (4) A person who fails, without reasonable excuse, to comply with a notice served under subsection (1) commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding ten thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding two years or to both. Legal obligation to give information 33. (1) Subject to such limit ation as is provided under this Act, every person required b y a Commissioner or a memb er of the Task Force to give any i nformation on any subject which the Commissioner or member of the Task Force has a duty to investigate 

Enforcement Agency Integrity Commission 29 under this Act, and which is in that person’s power to give, shall be legally bound to give the information. (2) A person who contravenes su bsection (1) commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be lia ble to a fine not exceeding ten thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term no t exceeding two years or to both. Hearings 34. (1) For the purposes of a n investigation, the Commission may hold a hearing if the Commission deems it necessary or expedient. (2) A hearing shal l be presided by such number of Commissioners as the Commission deems fit on a case-to-case basis. (3) A person appearing at a hea ring is en titled to be informed of the general scope and pur pose of the hearing, unless the Commission is of the opinion th at to disclose such information would seriously prejudice the investigation concerned. (4) The Commission may be assist ed by a legal officer appointed under section 14. Public and closed hearings 35. (1) All hearings are to be open to the public. (2) Notwithstanding subsection (1), a hearing or part of a hearing may be closed to the public if the Commission is satisfied that— (a) information or documents that may be given, or a matter that may arise during the public hearing or a part of the hearing is of a confidential nature; or (b) the hearing or part of the h earing of a matter or part of a matter would not be cond ucive to the due administ ration 

30 Laws Of Malaysia ACT 700 of this Act if the hearing or part of the hearing is open to the public. (3) In making these decisions, the Commission is obliged to have regard to any matters that it considers to be related to public interest. (4) The Commission may gi ve dir ections as to the persons who may be present at a hea ring when it is being held as a closed hearing, and no person shall be present at the hearing i n contravention of any such direction. Right of appearance of interested person 36. If it is shown to th e sati sfaction of the Commission that any person is substantially and directly interested in any subject matter of a hearing, the Commission may authori ze the person to appear at the hearing or a specified part of the hearing. Legal representation 37. (1) The Commission may, in relation to a hearing, authorize— (a) a person giving evidence at the hearing; or (b) a person referred to in section 36, to be represented by a legal p ractitioner at the hearing or a specified part of the hearing. (2) The Commission may be assist ed by a legal officer appointed under section 14 should the Commission deems it necessary. Examination of witnesses 38. (1) A person authorized or required to appear at a hearing or his legal practitioner may, wi th the leave of the Co mmission, examine any witness on any matter that the Commission considers relevant. 

Enforcement Agency Integrity Commission 31 (2) The legal officer appointed by the Commissio n to assist it may examine any witness on any matter that the Commission considers relevant. (3) A witness examined under this section has the same protection and is subject to the same liabilities as if examined by a Commissioner. Privileged documents, answers, etc. 39. (1) A witness summoned to attend or appearing before the Commission at a hearing shall not refuse— (a) to be sworn or to make an affirmation; (b) to answer any question relevant to an investigation put to the witness by a Commissioner at the hearing; or (c) to produce any document or other thing in the custody or control of the witness that the witness is requi red by the summons or by the Commission to produce. (2) A witness summoned to attend or appearing before the Commission at a hearing is not excused from answering any question or producing any docume nt or other thing on the ground that the answer, docum ent or other thing may incriminate or tend to incriminate the witness, or on any other ground of privilege, duty of secrecy or other restriction on disclosure, or on any other ground. (3) An answer made, or do cument or other thing produced, by a witness at a hearing befor e the Commission is not, except as otherwise provided in this section, admissible in evidence against the person in any civil o r criminal proceedings, but may be used in deciding whether to make an order for the purpose of any disciplinary proceedings held by the appropriate Disciplinary Authority. 

32 Laws Of Malaysia ACT 700 (4) Nothing in this section makes inadmissible— (a) any answer, document or other thing in proceedings for an offence against this Act or in proceedings for contempt under this Act; (b) any ans wer, document or other thing in any civil or criminal proceedings if the witness does not object to giving the answer or producing the document or other thing irrespective of the provisions of subsection (2); or (c) any document in any civil proceedings for o r in respect of any right or liability conferred or imposed by the document or other thing. Power to search with warrant 40. (1) If it appears to a Magis trate, upon written information on oath from a Commissione r or a member of the Task Force and after such inquiry as the Magis trate considers necessary, that there is reasonable cause to believe that— (a) any premises has been used for; or (b) in any premises, there is evidence necessary to investigate, the misconduct, the Magistrate may issue a warrant auth orizing the Commissioner or a member o f the Task Force named therein, at any reasonable time by day or night and with or without assistance, to enter the premises and if need be, by force. (2) A warrant issued under s ubsection (1) may authorize the Commissioner or the member of the Task Force to— (a) search the premises for, and to seize or remove from the premises, any conveyance, contrivance, equipment, book, record, document or other article that is reasonably believed to furnish evidence of the misconduct; 

Enforcement Agency Integrity Commission 33 (b) take samples of any thing found in the premises for the purposes of ascertaining, by testing or otherwise, whether the misconduct has been committed; and (c) make copies of or take extracts from any book, record, document or other article found in the premises. (3) The Commissioner or member of the Task Force en tering any premises under this section may take with him such other persons and equipment as may appear to him to be necessary. (4) The Commissioner or m ember of the Task Force may, in the exercise of his powers under this section, if it is necessary so to do— (a) break open any outer or inner door of the premises or any fence, enclosure, gate or other obstruction to the premises, in order to effect entry into the premises; (b) remove by force any o bstruction to entry, search, seizure and removal as he is empowered to effect under this section; and (c) detain any person found in the premises until the search has been completed. Search and seizure without warrant 41. Whenever the Commissioner or memb er of the Task Force has reasonable cause to believe that an y conveyance, contrivance, equipment, book, record, document or o ther article that is reasonably believed to furnish evidence of the misconduct is likely to be found in or on any place, premises , person or conveyance and that by reason of delay in obtaining a warrant under section 40 the object of the search may be frust rated, he may, without warrant, with such assistance and force as is necessary— (a) enter and search such place or premises; (b) stop and search such person or conveyance; and 

34 Laws Of Malaysia ACT 700 (c) seize any conveyance, contrivance, equipment, book, record, document or other article which may be found and may be evidence of the misconduct. List of things seized 42. (1) Where any seiz ure is made under this Act, the Commissioner or the member of the Task Force m aking the seizure shall prepare a list of every conveyance, contri vance, equipment, book, record, document or other article seized a nd of the place in which it was found and shall sign the list. (2) The list shall be given to — (a) the occupant of the place or premises where the conveyance, contrivance, equipment, book, record, document or other article seized was found; and (b) the person in control or in charge of the conveyance, where the seizure is made in regards of the conveyance or anything in the conveyance. (3) Where the seizure is made i n or from any place or premises which are unoccupied, th e Commissioner or member of the Task Force shall whenever possible post a list of things seized conspicuo usly at the place or premises. Release of seized conveyance, etc. 43. A Commissioner or member of the Task Force authorized by a Commissioner may, where he thin ks fit, at any time direct that any conveyance, contrivance, eq uipment, book, record, docume nt or other article seized under thi s Act be released to the person from whose possession, custody or control it was seized. 

Enforcement Agency Integrity Commission 35 PART VI OFFENCES Threats against witnesses 44. (1) A person who hinders o r attempts to hinder any person from giving evide nce before the Commission or by threats, deters or attempts to deter any person fro m giving such evidence, commits an offence and shall, on convic tion, be liable to imprisonment for a term not exceeding two y ears or to a fine not exceeding one hundred thou sand ringgit or to both. (2) A person who threatens, in sults or injures any person for having given evidence, or on ac count of the evidence which the person has given before the Co mmission, shall be guilty of an offence and shall, on conviction , be liab le to imprisonment for a term not exceeding two years or to a fine not exceeding one hundred thousand ringgit or to both. Contempt 45. (1) A person who commi ts an act of contempt against a Commissioner commits an offen ce and shall, on conviction, be liable to imprisonment for a ter m not exceeding two years or to a fine not exceeding one hundred thousand ringgit or to both. (2) For the purpose of thi s section, an “act of contempt” means— (a) any act of disrespect or any insult or threat offered to a Commissioner while sitting in a hearing; and (b) any act of disrespect or any insult or threat to a Commissioner at any other time and place on account of him proceeding in his capacity as a Commissioner. 

36 Laws Of Malaysia ACT 700 PART VII GENERAL Funds 46. The Government shall ma ke allocation of adequate funds annually for the purposes of the Commission to enable the Commission to discharge its functions effectively under this Act. Statutory Bodies (Accounts and Annual Reports) Act 1980 47. The Statutory Bodies (A ccounts and A nnual Reports) Act 1980 [Act 240] shall apply to the Commission. Annual report 48. (1) The Commission shall n ot later than the first meeting of Parliament of the followin g year, submit an annual report to Parliament of all its activiti es during the ye ar to which the report relates. (2) The report shall contain a list of all matters referred to the Commission and the action taken in respect of them. Protection of Commissio ners, officers and staff of the Commission 49. No action, suit, prosecution or proceeding shall be instituted in any court against the Commissioner s, the chief executive officer, other officers and staff of t he Commission and any member of the Task Force in respect of any act or thing done or committed by him in such capacity pro vided that he at the time had carried out his functions in good faith. 

Enforcement Agency Integrity Commission 37 Public Authorities Protection Act 1948 50. The Public Authorities Protection Act 1948 [ Act 198 ] shall apply to any action, suit, pro secution or proceedings against the Commission o r against any Comm issioner, officer of the Commission or member of the T ask Force in respect of any act or thing done or committed by him in such capacity. Public servant 51. Every Commissioner, officer of the Commission or member of the Task Force, wh ile discharging his du ties as such Commissioner, officer of the Commission or member of the Task Force shall be deemed to be a public servant within the meaning of the Penal Code [Act 574]. Obligation of secrecy 52. (1) Except for the purposes of this Act or for the purposes of any civil or criminal proce edings under any written law or where otherwise authorized by the Commission — (a) no Commissioner, officer and staff of the Commission and member of the Task Force, whether during or after his tenure of o ffice or employment, shall disclose any information obtained by him in the course of his duties; and (b) no other person who has by any means access to any information or documents relating to the affairs of the Commission shall disclose such information or document. (2) A person who contravenes su bsection (1) commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be li able to imprisonment for a term not exceeding two years or to a fine not exceeding one hundred thousand ringgit or to both. 

38 Laws Of Malaysia ACT 700 Institution and conduct o f prosecution 53. No prosecution in respect of a ny offence under this Act shall be instituted except by or with written consent of the Public Prosecutor. Regulations 54. The Prime Minister may m ake regulations for the purpose of carrying out or giving effect to the provisions of this Act. Power of Prime Minister to amend Schedule 55. The Prime Minister may by order published in the Gazette amend the Schedule. SCHEDULE [Subsection 1(4)] ENFORCEMENT AGENCIES TO WHICH THIS ACT APPLIES National Anti-Drugs Agency Malaysian Maritime Enforcement Agency Department of Environment Immigration Department of Malaysia Royal Customs Department of Malaysia Department of Occupational Safety and Health National Registration Department Road Transport Department Industrial Relations Department Fisheries Department Department of Wildlife and National Parks Volunteers Department of Malaysia (RELA) 

Enforcement Agency Integrity Commission 39 Labour Department Ministry of Health (Enforcement Division) Ministry of Tourism, Arts and Culture (Tourism Licensing Division) Ministry of Domestic Trade and Cost of Living (Enforcement Division) Ministry of Local Government Development (Enforcement Division) Commercial Vehicles Licensing Board (Sabah) Commercial Vehicles Licensing Board (Sarawak) Registrar of Businesses Civil Aviation Authority of Malaysia 

40 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 700 ENFORCEMENT AGENCY INTEGRITY COMMISSION ACT 2009 LIST OF AMENDMENTS Amending law Short title In force from P.U. (A) 295/2021 Enforcement Agency Integrity Commission (Amendme nt of Schedule) Order 2021 062021 P.U. (A) 270/2023 Enforcement Agency Integrity Commission (Amendment of Schedule) Order 2023 subparagraphs 2(a) and (b)— 082023; subparagraph 2(c) —012023 

41 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 700 ENFORCEMENT AGENCY INTEGRITY COMMISSION ACT 2009 LIST OF SECTIONS AMENDED Section Amending authority In force from Schedule P.U. (A) 295/2021 062021 Schedule P.U. (A) 270/2023 subparagraphs 2(a) and (b)— 082023; subparagraph 2(c) —012023