Finance LAWS OF MALAYSIA RepRint Act 639 FINANCE ACT 2004 Incorporating all amendments up to 1 January 2006 published by the CommissioneR of law Revision, malaysia undeR the authoRity of the Revision of laws aCt 968 in CollaboRation with peRCetakan nasional malaysia bhd 2006

 FINANCE ACT 2004 d ate of Royal a ssent ... … … … .... …  4 d ecember 004 d ate of publication in the Gazette … … 30 d ecember 004

3 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 639 FINANCE ACT 2004 a RRan Gement of se Ctions Chapter I pRelimina Ry s ection  . s hort title  . a mendments of a cts Chapter ii amendments to the in Come ta X a Ct 967 3. Commencement of amendments to the income t ax a ct 967 4. a mendment of section  5. a mendment of section 6 6. a mendment of section 6 a 7. a mendment of section 34 8. a mendment of section 44 9. a mendment of section 45 a  0. a mendment of section 46  . a mendment of section 47  . a mendment of section 49  3. a mendment of section 6   4. n ew section 6 a  5. a mendment of section 63 a  6. a mendment of section 63 b  7. n ew section 63 C  8. s pecial provision relating to section 63 C

4 Laws of Malaysia Act 639 s ection  9. n ew sectio n 63 d  0. a mendment of section 77  . a mendment of section 86  . a mendment of section 03  3. n ew section 09d  4. n ew section b  5. n ew section C  6. a mendment of section 5  7. a mendment of s chedule   8. a mendment of s chedule 3  9. s pecial provision relating to paragraph 3 of s chedule 3 30. s pecial provision relating to paragraph 35 of s chedule 3 3. a mendment of s chedule 4 a 3. a mendment of s chedule 4 C 33. a mendment of s chedule 6 Chapter iii amendments to the pet Roleum ( in Come ta X) a Ct 967 34. Commencement of amendments to the petroleum ( income t ax) a ct 967 35. a mendment of section  36. a mendment of section 8 37. a mendment of s econd s chedule 38. s pecial provision relating to paragraph 3 of s econd s chedule 39. s pecial provision relating to paragraph 8 of s econd s chedule Chapter iv amendment to the R eal pRope Rty G ains ta X a Ct 976 40. Commencement of amendment to the Real property Gains t ax a ct 976 4. a mendment of s chedule 

5Finance Chapter v amendment to the stamp a Ct 949 s ection 4. Commencement of amendment to the s tamp a ct 949 43. a mendment of f irst s chedule

6 Laws of Malaysia Act 639

7Finance LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 639 FINANCE ACT 2004 a n a ct to amend the income t ax a ct 967, the petroleum ( income t ax) a ct 967, the Real property Gains t ax a ct 976 and the s tamp a ct 949. [ ] ENACTED by the parliament of m alaysia as follows: Chapter i pRelimina Ry Short title 1. t his a ct may be cited as the f inance a ct 004. Amendments of Acts 2. t he income t ax a ct 967 [ Act 53 ], the petroleum ( income t ax) a ct 967 [ Act 543 ], the Real property Gains t ax a ct 976 [Act 169 ] and the s tamp a ct 949 [ Act 378 ] are amended in the manner specified in Chapters ii , iii , iv and v respectively. Chapter ii amendments to the in Come ta X a Ct 967 Commencement of amendments to the Income Tax Act 1967 3. () s ections 4, 5, 6, and subparagraph 7 (b)(ii) and sections 8, 9, 0, , , 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 3, 7, 8, 9, 30, 3  and 3 have effect for the year of assessment 005 and subsequent years of assessment.

8 Laws of Malaysia Act 639 () p aragraph 7 (a) has ef fect for the year of assessment 00 and subsequent years of assessment. (3) s ubparagraph 7 (b)(i) and sections 0,  and  have effect for the year of assessment 004 and subsequent years of assessment. (4) s ections 4, 5 and 6 shall come into operation on  January 005. (5) p aragraph 33 (a) has effect for the year of assessment 003 and subsequent years of assessment. (6) p aragraph 33 (b) is deemed to have come into operation on  s eptember 004. Amendment of section 2 4. t he income t ax a ct 967, which is referred to as the “principal a ct” in this Chapter, is amended in section — (a) in subsection ( )— (i) by inserting after the definition of “business” the following definition: ‘ “Central b ank” means the Central b ank of m alaysia established under section 3 of the Central b ank of m alaysia a ct 958 [ Act 519 ]’; and (ii) by inserting after the definition of “royalty” the following definition: ‘ “s ecurities Commission” means the s ecurities Commission established under section 3 of the s ecurities Commission a ct 993 [ Act 498 ]’; and (b) in subsection (8) by substituting for the words “in accordance with the principles of s yariah” the words “approved by the Central b ank or the s ecurities Commission, as a scheme which is in accordance with the principles of s yariah where such disposal is strictly required for the purpose of complying with those principles but which will not be required in any other schemes of financing”.

9Finance Amendment of section 6 5. s ubsection 6( ) of the principal a ct is amended— (a) in paragraph (h) by substituting for the full stop at the end of that paragraph a semicolon; and (b) by inserting after paragraph (h) the following paragraph: “(i) subject to section 09d but notwithstanding any other provisions of this a ct, income tax shall be charged for each year of assessment upon the income of a non-resident unit holder which consists of income distributed by the unit trust referred to in section 6 a at the appropriate rate as specified under part X of s chedule .”. Amendment of section 6 A 6. s ubsection 6a (3a ) of the principal a ct is amended by substituting for the words “four hundred” the words “five hundred”. Amendment of section 34 7. s ection 34 of the principal a ct is amended— (a) by inserting after subsection (3) the following subsections: “(3a ) t he reference to the debt which is partly irrecoverable under paragraph ( )(b), shall be deemed, in the case of a bank, to include all interest in respect of a loan or credit facility accrued from the date that such loan or facility is classified as non-performing loan in accordance with the relevant guidelines issued by the Central b ank. (3 b ) f or the purpose of subsection (3 a ), “bank” means a bank or a finance company or a banking and finance company licensed or deemed to be licensed under the b anking and f inancial institutions a ct 989 [Act 372 ] or islamic b anking a ct 983 [ Act 276 ], or an institution prescribed under the d evelopment f inancial institutions a ct 00 [ Act 618 ]”; and 

0 Laws of Malaysia Act 639 (b) in subsection (6)— (i) by substituting for paragraph (m) the following paragraph: “(m) an amount equal to the expenditure, not being capital expenditure, incurred by a company in the relevant period for the purpose of obtaining accreditation for a laboratory or as a certification body, as evidenced by a certificate issued by the d epartment of s tandards m alaysia: p rovided that the expenditure incurred in the relevant period shall be deemed to be incurred by that company in the basis period for the year of assessment in which the certificate is issued;”; and (ii) by inserting after paragraph (m) as amended the following paragraph: “(ma) an amount twice the amount of the expenditure, not being capital expenditure, incurred by a company in the relevant period for the purpose of obtaining certification for recognized quality systems and standards, and halal certification, evidence by a certificate issued by a certification body as determined by the m inister: p rovided that the expenditure incurred in the relevant period shall be deemed to be incurred by that company in the basis period for the year of assessment in which the certificate is issued;”. Amendment of section 44 8. s ection 44 of the principal a ct is amended— (a) in paragraph ( )(d) by substitut ing for the words “or ( )” the words “, ( ) or ( a )”; and

Finance (b) by inserting after subsection ( ) the following subsection: “(a ) t here shall be deducted pursuant to this subsection from the aggregate income of a company for the relevant year reduced by any deduction for that year in accordance with subsection ( ) an amount equal to the payment of zakat perniagaan which is paid in the basis period for that relevant year to an appropriate religious authority established under any written law or any person authorized by such religious authority: p rovided that— (a) the amount to be deducted pursuant to this subsection shall not exceed one-fortieth of the aggregate income of the company in the relevant year; and (b) the company is not an offshore company.”. Amendment of section 45 A 9. s ection 45 a of the principal a ct is amended by substituting for the word “two” the word “three”. Amendment of section 46 10. s ubsection 46( ) of the principal a ct is amended— (a) in paragraph (e), by substituting for the word “five” the word “six”; and (b) in paragraph (i), by substituting for the word “five” the word “seven”. Amendment of section 47 11. p aragraph 47( )(b) of the principal a ct is amended by substituting for the word “two” the word “three”.

 Laws of Malaysia Act 639 Amendment of section 49 12. s ection 49 of the principal a ct is amended— (a) in subsection ( ) by substituting for the word “five” the word “six”; and (b) in subsection ( a ) by substituting for the word “five” the word “six”. Amendment of section 61 13. s ection 6  of the principal a ct is amended— (a) in the proviso to subsection ( a ) by substituting for the words “exempt income” the words “income exempt from tax, other than income exempt under section 6 a ,”; and (b) by inserting after subsection ( a ) the following subsection: “(lb ) a ny income which is distributed by a unit trust to a unit holder under subsection ( a ) shall be deemed to be derived from m alaysia.”. New section 61 A 14. t he principal a ct is amended by inserting after section 6  the following section: “Exemption of Real Estate Investment Trust or Property Trust Fund 61A. () t he total income of a unit trust for a year of assessment which is equivalent to the amount of income distributed to the unit holder in the basis period for that year of assessment which is ascertained by reference to the unit holder’s share of that income shall be exempt from tax. () i n this section, “unit trust” means a unit trust which is approved by the s ecurities Commission as Real e state investment t rust or property t rust f und.”.

3Finance Amendment of section 63 A 15. s ection 63 a of the principal a ct is amended by inserting after subsection (5) the following subsection: “(6) t his section shall not apply to a unit trust referred to in subsection 6 a ().”. Amendment of section 63 b 16. s ection 63 b of the principal a ct is amended by inserting after subsection ( ) the following subsection: “(3) t his section shall not apply to a unit trust referred to in subsection 6 a ().”. New section 63 c 17. t he principal a ct is amended by inserting after section 63 b the following section: “Special treatment on rent from the letting of real property of a Real Estate Investment Trust or Property Trust Fund 63 c . () t he provision of this section shall apply notwithstanding any other provisions of this a ct. () w here in the year of assessment, income of a unit trust consists of a rent from the letting of real property, the amount of the rent shall be treated as gross income of a unit trust from a source consisting of a business for that year of assessment. (3) i n ascertaining, for a year of assessment, the adjusted income of a unit trust from a source referred to in subsection (), any deductions to be made under this a ct in arriving to that income, in respect of that source for the basis period for that year of assessment shall only be allowed against the gross income from that source but— (a) where the amount of the deduction exceeds the gross income from that source for that year of assessment, the excess shall be disregarded for the purposes of this a ct; and

4 Laws of Malaysia Act 639 (b) where that source does not produce any income, the deduction from the gross income of that unit trust from that source of income shall not be allowed. (4) i n ascertaining, for a year of assessment, the statutory income of a unit trust from a source referred to in subsection (), any allowances for that year of assessment under s chedule 3 in respect of that source shall only be available against the adjusted income of that source and if by reason of an absence or insufficiency of adjusted income from that source for the basis period for that year of assessment, effect cannot be given or be given in full to any allowance for that year of assessment in relation to that source, that allowance which has not been so made shall not be made to the unit trust for any subsequent years of assessment. (5) f or the purposes of this section, “unit trust” has the same meaning assigned to it under subsection 6l a ().”. Special provision relating to section 63 c 18. n otwithstanding section 63 C of the principal a ct as introduced by section 7 of this a ct, sections 43 and 44 of the principal a ct shall apply to a unit trust dealt with in section 63c of the principal a ct in respect of its adjusted loss (if any) or an allowance which is deemed to be made to that unit trust under paragraph 75 of s chedule 3 of the principal a ct, which adjusted loss or allowance of the unit trust is ascertained prior to the coming into operation of section 7 of this a ct. New section 63 d 19. t he principal a ct is amended by inserting after section 63 C the following section: “Income of a unit trust from the letting of real property is not income from a business 63d . s ubject to of section 63 C but notwithstanding any other provisions of this a ct, income of a unit trust which consists of rent from the letting of real property shall not be treated as income from a source consisting of a business.”.

5Finance Amendment of section 77 20. s ection 77 of the principal a ct is amended— (a) by substituting for subsection ( ) excluding the proviso to that subsection the following subsection: “() e very person, other than a company, trust body or co-operative society to which section 77 a applies, shall for each year of assessment furnish to the d irector General a return in the prescribed form— (a) in the case of that person who is carrying on a business, not later than 30 June in the year following that year of assessment; or (b in any other case than the case in paragraph (a), not later than 30 a pril in the year following the year of assessment:”; and (b) by inserting after subsection ( ) as amended by this a ct the following subsection: “(1a ) w here subsection 45( ) applies, a reference to a person under paragraph (a) includes a reference to an individual where his wife or her husband who elects, as the case may be, is carrying on a business.”. Amendment of section 86 21. s ubsection 86() of the principal a ct is amended by substituting for the word “ a pril” the word “June”. Amendment of section 103 22. s ubsection 03() of the principal a ct is amended— (a) in paragraph (a), by deleting the word “and” appearing at the end of the paragraph; (b) by substituting for paragraph (b) the following paragraph: “(b) in the case of a person referred to under paragraph 77(l)(a), 30 June in the year following the year of assessment; and”; and

6 Laws of Malaysia Act 639 (c) by inserting after par agraph (b) the following paragraph: “(c) in any other case other than the cases referred to in paragraphs (a) and (b), 30 a pril in the year following the year of assessment.”. New section 109 d 23. t he principal a ct is amended by inserting after section 09C the following section: “Deduction of tax on the distribution of income of a unit trust 109d . () t his section shall only apply to income of a unit trust which is exempt under section 6 a . () w here a unit trust (in this section referred to as the payer) distributes income to a non-resident unit holder which is deemed to be derived from m alaysia, the payer shall upon distributing the income, deduct therefrom tax at the rate applicable to such income and shall within one month after distributing such income, render an account and pay the amount of that tax to the d irector General: p rovided that the d irector General may— (a) give notice in writing to the payer requiring him to deduct and pay tax at any other rates or to distribute the income without deduction of tax; or (b) under special circumstances, allow extension of time for the amount of tax deducted to be paid over. (3) w here the payer fails to pay any amount due from him under subsection ( ), that amount which he fails to pay shall be increased by an amount equal to ten per cent of the income liable to deduction of tax under that subsection and the total sum shall be a debt due from him to the Government and shall be payable forthwith to the d irector General. (4) w here in pursuance of this section any amount is paid to the d irector General by the payer or recovered by the d irector General from the payer— (a) the d irector General shall, in the manner provided by section 0, apply that amount towards payment 

7Finance of the tax charged on the unit holder to whom the payer distributes income to which that amount relates; and (b) if the payer has not deducted that amount in distributing the income under subsection ( ) with respect to which that amount relates, he may recover that amount from that unit holder as a debt due to the payer. (5) s ection 0 shall apply mutatis mutandis to tax deducted under this section.”. New section 111 b 24. t he principal a ct is amended by inserting after part vii the following part: “part vii a fund fo R ta X R efund Establishment of Fund for Tax Refund 111b . () t here is hereby established a fund, to be known as the f und for t ax Refund (in this section referred to as “the f und”) which shall be specified in and incorporated into the s econd s chedule to the f inancial procedure a ct 957 [ Act 61 ]. () t here shall be paid from time to time into the f und such amount of tax collected under this a ct as may be authorized by the m inister. (3) t he moneys of the f und shall be applied for the making of a refund of an amount of tax paid in excess of the amount payable as ascertained in section  of this a ct. (4) t he f und shall be administered by the a ccountant General of m alaysia. (5) n otwithstanding the provisions of subsection ( ) and the f inancial procedure a ct 957, the m inister may from time to time authorize the payment into the Consolidated 

8 Laws of Malaysia Act 639 Revenue a ccount in the f ederal Cons olidated f und of all or any part of the moneys of the f und.”. New section 111 c 25. t he principal a ct is amended by inserting after section b the following section: “Non applicability of section 14 A of the Financial Procedure Act 1957 111c . s ection 14a of the f inancial procedure a ct 957 shall not apply to any refund in excess of the amount payable as ascertained in section .”. Amendment of section 151 26. t he principal a ct is amended by substituting for section 5 the following section: “Procedure for making refunds and repayments 151. w here the d irector General is authorized or required by this a ct to make any refund or repayment, he shall certify the amount of the sum to be refunded or repaid and cause the refund or repayment to be made forthwith.”. Amendment of Schedule 1 27. s chedule  of the principal a ct is amended by inserting after part iX the following part: “part X n otwithstanding part i, income tax shall be charged on the income of a non-resident unit holder consisting of income distributed to that unit holder referred to in section 09d which is derived from m alaysia at the rate of 8% of gross.”. Amendment of Schedule 3 28. s chedule 3 of the principal a ct is amended— (a) in paragraph 3— (i) by renumbering that paragraph as subparagraph 3();

9Finance (ii) in subparagraph 3() as renumbered, by substituting for the words “paragraphs 3 a to” the word “paragraph”; and (iii) by inserting after subparagraph 3( ) the following subparagraph: “() f or the purpose of this s chedule, the qualifying building expenditure in the case of purchase of a building shall be the amount of the purchase price of that building.”; (b) by deleting paragraphs 3 a , 4 and 5; and (c) in paragraph 35— (i) by substituting for the colon at the end of the paragraph a full stop; and (ii) by deleting the proviso to the paragraph. Special provision relating to paragraph 3 of Schedule 3 29. n otwithstanding paragraph 3 of s chedule 3 to the principal a ct as amended under paragraph 8(a) of this a ct, where the amount of qualifying building expenditure has been determined pursuant to paragraph 3, 3 a , 4 or 5 of the principal a ct before the coming into operation of the amendment to those paragraphs under section 8 of this a ct, that amount of qualifying building expenditure shall continue to apply for the purposes of that s chedule. Special provision relating to paragraph 35 of Schedule 3 30. n otwithstanding paragraph 35 of s chedule 3 to the principal a ct, where prior to the coming into operation of the amendment to that paragraph under paragraph 8(c) of this a ct, a person has incurred capital expenditure on the construction or the purchase of a building which is used as an industrial building, no charge (if any) shall be made on that person under paragraph 35 s chedule 3 to the principal a ct as amended if the building is disposed off after the basis period for a year of assessment which is the fiftieth year of assessment after the year of assessment in the basis year in which that building was constructed.

0 Laws of Malaysia Act 639 Amendment of Schedule 4 A 31. s chedule 4 a of the principal a ct is amended by inserting after paragraph 8 the following paragraph: “9. t he m inister may pre scribe any capital expenditure incurred by a person in his business as qualifying farm expenditure and the amount of deduction in respect of that qualifying farm expenditure which would otherwise fall to be made to him under paragraph 4.”. Amendment of Schedule 4 c 32. s chedule 4 C of the principal a ct is amended in paragraph (a) by substituting for the word “ 005” the word “ 00”. Amendment of Schedule 6 33. s chedule 6 of the principal a ct is amended— (a) in subparagraph 5()— (i) in subsubparagraph (a), by deleting the word “or” at the end of that subsubparagraph; (ii) in subsubparagraph (b), by substituting for the full stop at the end of that subsubparagraph the words “; or ” ; and (iii) by inserting after subsubparagraph (b) the following subsubparagraph: “(c) if the retirement takes place on reaching the compulsory age of retirement pursuant to a contract of employment or collective agreement at the age of 50 but before 55 and that employment has lasted for ten years with the same employer or with companies in the same group: p rovided that the sum shall not exceed an amount ascertained by multiplying the sum of six thousand ringgit by the number of completed years of service in that employment.”; and

Finance (b) by inserting after paragraph 33 the following paragraph: “33a . interest paid or credited to any company not resident in m alaysia, other than such interest accruing to a place of business in m alaysia of such company— (a) in respect of securities issued by the Government; or (b) in respect of islamic securities or debenture issued in Ringgit malaysia, other than convertible loan stock, approved by the s ecurities Commission.”. Chapter iii amendments to the pet Roleum ( in Come ta X) a Ct 967 Commencement of amendments to the Petroleum (Income Tax) Act 1967 34. () s ection 35 has effect for the year of assessment 003 and subsequent years of assessment. () s ection 36 has effect for the year of assessment 005 and subsequent years of assessment. (3) s ections 37, 38 and 39 have effect for the year of assessment 006 and subsequent years of assessment. Amendment of section 2 35. t he petroleum ( income t ax) a ct 967, which is referred to as the “principal a ct” in this Chapter, is amended in section  by substituting for the definition of “petroleum operations” the following definition: ‘ “petroleum operations” means— (a) searching for and winning or obtaining of petroleum in m alaysia by or on behalf of any person for his own account or on a joint account with any other person by any drilling, mining, extracting or other like operations or process, in the course of a 

 Laws of Malaysia Act 639 business carried on by that person engaged in such operations, and all operations incidental thereto, and any sale or disposal by or on behalf of that person of petroleum so won or obtained, and includes the transportation within m alaysia by or on behalf of that person of petroleum so won or obtained to any point of sale or delivery or export, but does not include— (i) any transportation of petroleum outside m alaysia; (ii) any process of refining or liquefying of petroleum; (iii) any dealings with products so refined or liquefied; or (iv) service involving the supply and use of rigs, derricks, ocean tankers and barges; and (b) any sale or disposal by petroleum n asional b erhad within m alaysia of petroleum obtained from outside of m alaysia and includes the transportation within m alaysia by, or on behalf of, petroleum n asional b erhad of such petroleum to any point of sale or delivery within m alaysia;’. Amendment of section 18 36. p aragraph 8()(h) of the principal a ct is amended— (a) by substituting for the semicolon at the end of the paragraph a colon; and (b) by inserting the proviso to that paragraph as follows: “provided that this paragraph shall not apply if the payer has paid the amount of deduction of tax and the increased amount which is equal to ten per cent of that deduction which are due and payable under the provisions of t hat law;”.

3Finance Amendment of Second Schedule 37. t he s econd s chedule of the principal a ct is amended— (a) in paragraph 3— (i) by renumbering that paragraph as subparagraph 3(); (ii) in subparagraph 3() as renumbered, by substituting for the words “paragraphs 3 a to” the word “paragraph”; and (iii) by inserting after subparagraph 3( ) the following subparagraph: “() f or the purpose of this s chedule, the qualifying building expenditure in the case of purchase of a building shall be the purchase price of that building.”; (b) by deleting paragraphs 3 a , 4 and 5; and (c) in paragraph 8— (i) by substituting for the colon at the end of that paragraph a full stop; and (ii) by deleting the proviso to that paragraph. Special provision relating to paragraph 3 of Second Schedule 38. n otwithstanding the provision of paragraph 3 of s econd s chedule to the principal a ct as amended under paragraph 37 (a) of this a ct, where the amount of qualifying building expenditure has been determined pursuant to paragraph 3, 3 a , 4 or 5 of the principal a ct prior to the coming into operation of the amendment to those paragraphs under section 37 of this a ct, that amount of qualifying building expenditure shall continue to apply for the purposes of that s chedule. Special provision relating to paragraph 18 of Second Schedule 39. n otwithstanding the provision of paragraph 8 of s econd s chedule to the principal a ct, where prior to the coming into 

4 Laws of Malaysia Act 639 operation of the amendment under paragraph 3 7(c) of this a ct, a person has incurred capital expenditure on the construction or the purchase of a building which is used as an industrial building, no charge (if any) shall be made on that person under paragraph 8 of s econd s chedule to the principal a ct as amended if the building is disposed off after the basis period for a year of assessment which is the fiftieth year of assessment after the year of assessment in the basis year in which that building was constructed. Chapter iv amendment to the R eal pRope Rty G ains ta X a Ct 976 Commencement of amendment to the Real Property Gains Tax Act 1976 40. t his Chapter is deemed to have come into operation on  s eptember 004. Amendment of Schedule 2 41. t he Real property Gains t ax a ct 976 is amended in s chedule  in subparagraph 3 (g) by substituting for that subparagraph the following subparagraph: “(g) the disposal of any chargeable asset pursuant to a scheme of financing approved by the Central b ank or the s ecurities Commission as a scheme which is in accordance with the principles of s yariah, where such disposal is strictly required for the purpose of compliance with those principles but which will not be required for any other schemes of financing.”. Chapter v amendment to the stamp a Ct 949 Commencement of amendment to the Stamp Act 1949 42. t his Chapter is deemed to have come into operation on  s eptember 004.

5Finance Amendment of First Schedule 43. t he s tamp a ct 949 is amended in the f irst s chedule under the heading “ GENERAL EXEMPTION s ”, by inserting after paragraph 5 the following paragraph: “6. a n instrument executed pursuant to a scheme of financing approved by the Central b ank or the s ecurities Commission as a scheme which is in accordance with the principles of s yariah, where such instrument is an additional instrument strictly required for the purpose of compliance with those principles but which will not be required for any other schemes of financing.”.

6 Laws of Malaysia Act 639 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 639 FINANCE ACT 2004 list of amendments a mending law s hort title in force from – nil –

7Finance LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 639 FINANCE ACT 2004 list of se Ctions amended s ection a mending authority in force from – nil –