LAWS OF MALAYSIA _______________ ONLINE VERSION OF UPDATED TEXT OF REPRINT _______________ Act 118 HOUSING DEVELOPMENT (CONTROL AND LICENSING) ACT 1966 As at 2 March 2016 

2 HOUSING DEVELOPMENT (CONTROL AND LICENSING) ACT 1966 First enacted … … … … … … 1966 (Act No. 38 of 1966) Revised … ... ... … ... … ... ... 1973 (Act 118 w.e.f. 16 August 1973) Latest amendment made by Act A1415 which came into operation on … … … … 1 June 2015 PREVIOUS REPRINTS First Reprint … … … … … 1988 Second Reprint … … … … … 1995 Third Reprint … … … … … 2000 Fourth Reprint ... ... ... ... ... 2006 

3 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 118 HOUSING DEVELOPMENT (CONTROL AND LICENSING) ACT 1966 ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS PART I PRELIMINARY Section 1. Short title and application 2. Saving and exemption 3. Interpretation 3A. Powers of the Minister to determine housing accomodation 4. Appointment of Controller, Deputy Controllers, Inspectors and other officers and servants PART II LICENSING OF HOUSING DEVELOPERS 5. Prohibition against housing development except by virtue of a licence and provisions relating to the grant of a licence 6. Conditions or restrictions for the grant of a licence 6A. Controller to keep deposit 6B. Controller may forfeit deposit PART III DUTIES OF A LICENSED HOUSING DEVELOPER 7. Duties of a licensed housing developer 7A. Licensed housing developer to open and maintain Housing Development Account 7B. Licensed housing developer for the purpose of sections 7, 8, 8A, 11 and 12 

4 Laws of Malaysia ACT 118 Section 7C. Freezing of the Housing Development Account 8. Arrangement or agreement affecting the business of a licensed housing developer 8A. Statutory termination of sale and purchase agreements 9. Audit PART IV INVESTIGATION AND ENFORCEMENT 10. Investigation 10A. Powers of entry, search and seizure 10B. Search of person 10C. Obstruction to exercise of powers by an Inspector 10D. Requirement to provide translation 10E. Power to examine persons 10F. Specific persons in respect of whom powers of investigation may be exercised 10G. Assistance to police or other public officer 10H. Protection of informers 10I. Authority to act 10J. Limitation on the powers of an Inspector 10K. Penalty for obstruction and failure to provide translation PART V POWERS OF MINISTER 11. Powers of the Minister to give directions for the purpose of safeguarding the interests of purchasers 12. Powers of the Minister to give general directions 13. Revocation and suspension of a licence 13A. Controller to report the conduct of an architect or engineer 13B. Transfer or assignment of a licence 14. Opportunity of being heard to be afforded before revocation or suspension of a licence and in certain other cases 15. Individual not eligible to take part in manageme nt of the business of a licensed housing developer 

Housing Development (Control and Licensing) 5 Section 16. Right of appeal to the Minister by an aggrieved licensed housing developer against the decision of the Controller PART VI TRIBUNAL FOR HOMEBUYER CLAIMS 16A. Meaning of “homebuyer” 16B. Establishment of Tribunal for Homebuyer Claims 16C. Membership of Tribunal 16D. Temporary exercise of functions of Chairman 16E. Vacation of office 16F. Revocation of appointment 16G. Resignation 16H. Filling of vacancy 16I. Remuneration 16J. Secretary to Tribunal and other officers 16K. Sittings of Tribunal 16L. Commencement of proceedings 16M. Jurisdiction of Tribunal 16N. Limitation of jurisdiction 16O. Extension of jurisdiction by agreement 16P. Abandonment to bring claim within jurisdiction 16Q. Claims not to be split 16R. Exclusion of jurisdiction of court 16S. Notice of claim and hearing 16T. Negotiation for settlement 16U. Right to appear at hearings 16V. Proceedings to be public 16W. Evidence 16X. Tribunal may act in absence of party 16Y. Awards of the Tribunal 16Z. Reference to a Judge of the High Court on a question of law 16AA. Reasons for decision 16AB. Orders and settlement to be recorded in writing 

6 Laws of Malaysia ACT 118 Section 16AC. Decisions of Tribunal to be final 16AD. Criminal penalty for failure to comply 16AE. Procedure where no provision is made 16AF. Want of form 16AG. Disposal of documents, etc. 16AH. Act or omission done in good faith 16AI. Regulations in respect of the Tribunal PART VII MISCELLANEOUS 17. Indemnity and protection against suit and proceedings 18. Offences relating to a licence under section 5 18A. Offences relating to abandonment of housin g development by a licensed housing developer 19. Offences by a housing developer 20. Offences by a director of or a person connected with the business of a licensed housing developer in certain cases 21. Penalty for offences not otherwise provided for 22. Liability of director, manager and other officials for offences committed by companies and liability of a person for acts done by others 22A. Public servants and public officers 22B. Application of Public Authorities Protection Act 1948 22C. Right to initiate and maintain actions 22D. Assignment 22E. Release of moneys by a stakeholder 22F. Progress certification 23. Prosecution 23A. Power to compound 24. Powers to make regulations SCHEDULE 

7 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 118 HOUSING DEVELOPMENT (CONTROL AND LICENSING) ACT 1966 An Act to provide for the control and licensing of the business of housing development in Peninsular Malaysia , the protection of the interest of purchasers and for matters connected therewith. [29 August 1969] PART I PRELIMINARY Short title and application 1. (1) This Act may be cited as the Housing Development (Control and Licensing) Act 1966.* (2) (Omitted). (3) This Act shall apply only in Peninsular Malaysia. Saving and exemption 2. (1) (Deleted by Act A1142). (2) The Minister may by order published in the Gazette exempt any housing developer or housing accommodation from any or all of the provisions of this Act and such exemption may be granted for such duration as may be specified in the order, and may be made subject to such limitations, restrictions or conditions as the Minister may specify in the order. * NOTE—Where, on or after 1 December 2002, a reference is made in any written law to the “Housing Developers (Control and Licensing) Act 1966”, such reference shall be construed as a reference to the “Housing Development (Control and Licensing) Act 1966” –see section 5 Act A1142. 

8 Laws of Malaysia ACT 118 (2A) The Minister may at any time by order published in the Gazette, revoke any exemption granted by him under subsection (2). (3) The provisions of this Act which relate to a company shall be construed as in addition or supplementary to, and not in derogation from, the provisions of any written law relating to companies. Interpretation 3. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires— “bank” means any bank licensed under the Banking and Financial Institutions Act 1989 [ Act 372] or under the Islamic Banking Act 1983 [Act 276]; “body of persons” means a group of persons, not being an incorporated body or group; “certificate of completion and compliance” means the certificate of completion and compliance given or granted under the Street, Drainage and Building Act 1974 [ Act 133] and any by -laws made under that Act certifying that the housing accommodation has been completed and is safe and fit for occupation but does not include partial certificate of completion and compliance; “company” means any company incorporated, formed or registered under any written law for the time being in force in Malaysia relating to companies, and includes any body corporate established under any written law in force in Malaysia; “Controller” means the Controller of Housing appointed under section 4; “Deputy Controller” means the Deputy Controller of Housing appointed under section 4; “finance company” means any finance company licensed under the Banking and Financial Institutions Act 1989; “firm” means an unincorporated body of persons (whether consisting of individuals or of corporations or partly of individuals and par tly of corporations) associated together for the purpose of carrying on business; 

Housing Development (Control and Licensing) 9 “housing accommodation” includes any building, tenement or messuage which is wholly or principally constructed, adapted or intended for human habitation or partly for human habitation and partly for business premises and such other type of accommodation as may be prescribed by the Minister from time to time to be a housing accommodation pursuant to section 3A; “housing developer” means any person, body of persons, company, firm or society (by whatever name described), who or which engages in or carries on or undertakes or causes to be undertaken a housing development, and in a case where the housing developer is under liquidation, includes a person or body appoin ted by a cou rt of competent jurisdiction to be the provisional liqui dator or liquidator for the housing developer; “housing development” means to develop or construct or cause to be constructed in any manner whatsoever more than four units of housing accommodation and includes the collection of moneys or the carrying on of any building operations for the purpose of erecting housing accommodation in, on, over or under any land; or the sale of more than four lots of land or building lots with the view of constructing more than four units of housing accommodation; “Housing Development Account” means an account opened and maintained by a licensed housing developer pursuant to section 7A; “housing lot” means any piece of land surveyed or otherwise, to which a lot number has been assigned to it and which is subject to the category “building” in accordance with the National Land Code 1965 [Act 56 of 1965]; “Inspector” means an inspector appointed under section 4; “licence” means a licence granted under section 5; “licensed housing developer” means any housing developer licensed under section 5 to engage in or carry on or undertake a housing development and includes the holder of any power of attorney of such housing developer duly created under the Powers of Att orney Act 1949 [Act 424]; “local authority” includes any person or body of persons appointed or authorized under any written law to exercise and perform the powers and 

10 Laws of Malaysia ACT 118 duties which are conferred and imposed on a local authority under any written law; “prescribed” means prescribed by regulations made under this Act, and where no mode is mentioned means prescribed from time to time by order published in the Gazette; “purchaser” means any person who purchases housing accommodation or who has any dealing with a licensed housing developer in respect of the acquisition of housing accommodation; “stakeholder” means any solicitor holding moneys as stakeholder for payment to a housing developer pursuant to sale and purchase agreements in respect of a housing development which the housing developer is engaged in, carries on or undertakes or causes to be undertaken; “Tribunal” means the Tribunal for Homebuyer Claims established under section 16B. Powers of the Minister to determine housing accommodation 3A. (1) The Minister may, from time to time, by order published in the Gazette, prescribe any type of accommodation to be a housing accommodation. (2) In the event of any doubt as to whether a housing accommodation falls within the meaning of this Act, the Minister’s decision shall be final and shall not be questioned in any court. Appointment of Controller, Deputy Controllers, Inspectors and other officers and servants 4. (1) For the purpose of this Act, the Minister may appoint a Controller of Housing and such number of Deputy Controllers of Housing, Inspectors of Housing and other officers and servants as the Minister may deem fit from amongst members of the public service. (2) The Controller and Deputy Controllers shall have and may exercise any of the powers conferred on an Inspector by or under this Act. 

Housing Development (Control and Licensing) 11 (3) The Controller may, in writing, delegate all or any of his powers or functions under this Act, except his power of delegation, to any Deputy Controller, Inspector, officer or servant appointed under subsection (1). (4) Without prejudice to subsection (2), the Controller may, in writing, delegate any of his powers and functions under this Act in respect of the investigation of offences under this Act and the enforcement of this Act to any public officer or officer of a local authority. (5) Any delegation under subsection (3) or (4) may be revoked at any time by the Controller and does not prohibit the Controller from himself exercising the powers or performing the functions so delegated. PART II LICENSING OF HOUSING DEVELOPERS Prohibition against housing development except by virtue of a licence and provisions relating to the grant of a licence 5. (1) No housing development shall be engaged in, carried on, undertaken or caused to be undertaken except by a housing developer in possession of a licence issued under this Act. (2) Except with the written consent of the Controller no housing developer other than a licensed housing developer shall assume or use in relation to his business or any part of his business the words “housing developer” or any of its derivatives or any other word indicating the carrying on of the business of housing development. (3) A housing developer who desires to engage in or carry out or undertake or cause to be undertaken a housing development shall apply to the Controller for a licence and any such application shall be made in the prescribed form and in the case of any applicant listed in column (1) of the Schedule the application shall be accompa nied by the documents listed against him in column (2), every such document being verified by means of a statutory declaration made by the person listed in column (3) of the said Schedule. (4) Upon receiving an application for a licence under this sectio n, the Controller may grant the licence applied for or refuse to grant such a 

12 Laws of Malaysia ACT 118 licence; and in granting such a licence the Controller may impose thereon such conditions (including the period during which the licence shall be valid) as he may deem fit and proper. (4A) No application for a licence under this section shall be considered unless the prescribed fees have been paid to the Controller. (4B) There shall be charged and paid to the Controller on the grant of a licence and at such intervals after such grant during the period of validity of the licence such fees as may be prescribed. (5) Subject to section 14, the Controller may at any time vary, cancel or alter the conditions imposed under subsection (4) or impose any new or additional conditions; or, where the licence is not subject to any condition, impose thereon such conditions as the Controller may deem fit for carrying out the provisions of this Act. Conditions or restrictions for the grant of a licence 6. (1) Subject to the exercise of power of waiver by the Minister under subsection (2), the licence applied for under section 5 shall not be granted— (a) unless the applicant has a capital issued and paid up in cash of not less than two hundred and fifty thousand ringgit and makes a deposit with the Controller a sum equivalent to three per cent of the estimated cost of construction as cert ified by an architect in charge of the housing development in cash or in such other form as the Minister may determine, if the application is made by a company; or (b) unless the applicant makes a deposit with the Controller of a sum equivalent to three per cent of the estimated cost of construction as certified by an architect in charge of the housing development in cash or in such other form as the Minister may determine, if the application is made by a person or body of persons; (c) unless the applicant is not himself nor is any member or partner thereof a person convicted of an offence involving fraud or dishonesty or an undischarged bankrupt, if the 

Housing Development (Control and Licensing) 13 application is made respectively by a person or a body of persons or a firm; (d) unless no one who is convicted of an offence involving fraud or dishonesty or who is an undischarged bankrupt is holding office as director, manager or secretary of the applicant or other similar office or position, if the application is made by a company, or is holding office as president, secretary or treasurer of the applicant or other similar office or position, if the application is made by a society; (e) unless, at the time the application is made, the applicant or any member or partner of the applicant, if the applicant is a body of persons or firm, or a director, manager or secretary of the applicant, if the applicant is a company, has not, due to a conviction for an offence under this Act, been sentenced to a fine exceeding ten thousand ringgit or to imprisonment (other than imprisonment in default of a fine not exceeding ten thousand ringgit); (f) unless, at the time the application is made, a person who had been a director of o r had been directly concerned in the management of the business of a licensed housing developer which has been wound up by a court is not a director or is not directly concerned in the management of the business of the applicant; and (g) if the registration of the applicant’s architect or engineer has been cancelled and has not been reinstated under the Architects Act 1967 [Act 117] or the Registration of Engineers Act 1967 [Act 138] at the time the application is made. (1A) For the purposes of paragraphs (1)(d), (e) and (f), if the applicant is a company, the expression “applicant” shall include the holding company of the applicant, or a subsidiary of the applicant or a subsidiary of the holding company of the applicant. (1B) For the purpos e of paragraphs (1) (a) and (b), “estimated cost of construction” means the cost of constructing a housing development and includes financial costs, overhead costs and all other expenses necessary for the completion of the housing development but excludes land cost. 

14 Laws of Malaysia ACT 118 (2) The Minister may in his absolute discretion waive any or all of the conditions set out in paragraph (1) (a), (b) or (d) or substitute any or all of the said conditions for such ot her conditions as he may consider fit and proper. Controller to keep deposit 6A. Subject to any direction of the Minister, the Controller shall keep the deposit made under paragraphs 6(1) (a) and (b) until the expiry of the defect liability period of the housing development. Controller may forfeit deposit 6B. If any licensed holding developer— (a) is carrying on his business, in the opinion of the Controller, in a manner detrimental to the interest of the purchasers or to any member of the public; (b) has insufficient assets to cover his liabilities; (c) is contravening any of the provisions of this Act; or (d) has ceased to carry on housing development in Peninsular Malaysia, the Controller may, after having given the licensed developer an opportunity to submit reasons within a specified time on why the deposit under paragraph 6(1)(a) or (b) should not be forfeited, forfeit the whole or a part of the deposit. PART III DUTIES OF A LICENSED HOUSING DEVELOPER Duties of a licensed housing developer 7. In addition to the liabilities and duties imposed in sections 8 and 9, a licensed housing developer shall— 

Housing Development (Control and Licensing) 15 (a) within four weeks of the making of any alterations in or to any documents submitted to the Controller under subsection 5(3) furnish to the Controller written particulars of the alterations; (b) exhibit at all times in a conspicuous position in any office and branch office of the licensed housing developer and at any other place where a sale of housing accommodation is conducted, a copy of his licence, advertisement and sale permit and a copy of his last audited balance-sheet as soon as the same is available and such information as the present or former full name, usual residential address, nationality, nationality of origin (where the prese nt nationality is not that of origin), business or occupation (if any) of each person who has the control and management of the business of the licensed housing developer and particulars of any other directorship held by that person; (c) keep or cause to be kept in his office in Peninsular Malaysia such accounting and other records as will sufficiently explain the transactions and the financial position of the licensed housing developer and enable true and fair profit and loss accounts and balance-sheets and any documents required to be attached thereto to be prepared from time to time, shall cause these records to be kept in such manner as to enable them to be conveniently and properly audited; (d) every year appoint an auditor in the manner required under section 9; (e) within six months after the close of the financial year of the licensed housing developer in question send to the Controller and also publish in the Gazette a copy of the report of the auditor prepared under section 9 together with a copy of his balance-sheet and profit and loss account; (f) not later than the 21st day of January and the 21st day of July of each year or at such frequency as may be determined by the Controller from time to time or upon the request of the Controller, send to the Controller a correct and complete statement in writing made on oath or affirmation, in such form and containing such information as the Controller may from 

16 Laws of Malaysia ACT 118 time to time determine, on the progress of the housing development which the housing developer is engaged in, carries on or undertakes or causes to be undertaken until certificate of completion and compliance have been issued for all the housing accommodation in that housing development; (g) where he considers that he is likely to become unable to meet his obligations to the purchasers at any stage of the housing development before the issuance of the certificate of completion and compliance , forthwith inform the Controller of such fact; (h) undertake the following— (i) within twenty-one days from the date of receipt by the housing developer of the certificate of completion and compliance, submit such certificate to the Controller; and (ii) within twenty-one days after the date of handing over of vacant possession to the first purchaser of the housing accommodation in the housing development, inform the Controller in writing of the handing over; (i) inform the Controller of any refusal in the issuance of certificate of completion and compliance; (j) ensure that the development of the housing accommodation has been carried out in accordance with any requirements prescribed under any law regulating buildings and has exercised all such diligence as may be required for the issuance of certificate of completion and compliance and for the issuance and transfer of the titles to the housing accommodation to the purchasers; and (k) inform the Controller of the progress in the issuance of separate or strata titles for the housing accommodation and the transfer of such titles to the purchasers at such frequency as may be determined by the Controller beginning from the date of the handing over of vacant possession to the first purchaser of the housing accommodation in the housing development 

Housing Development (Control and Licensing) 17 until separate or strata titles for all the housing accommodation have been issued. Licensed housing developer to open and maintain Housing Development Account 7A. (1) Subject to subsection (9), every licensed housing developer shall open and maintain a Housing Development Account with a bank or finance company for each housing development undertaken by the licensed housing developer. (2) Where a housing development is to be developed in phases, the licensed housing developer shall open and keep a Housing Development Account under subsection (1) for each phase of such housing development. (3) The licensed housing developer shall pay into the Housing Development Account of a housing development the purchase moneys received by the licensed housing developer from the sale of housing accommodation in the housing development and any other sum of money which are required by regulations made under this Act to be paid into the Housing Development Account. (4) The licensed housing developer shall not withdraw any money from the Housing Development Account exc ept as authorized by regulations made under this Act. (5) Subject to paragraph (6) (b), all moneys in the Housing Development Account and all moneys held by the stakeholder shall, notwithstanding any other written law to the contrary, be deemed not to form part of the property of the licensed housing developer in the event— (a) the licensed housing developer enters into any composition or arrangement with his creditors or has a receiving order or an adjudication order made against him; or (b) the licensed housing developer, being a company, goes into voluntary or compulsory liquidation. (6) Upon the happening of any of the event referred to in subsection (5)— 

18 Laws of Malaysia ACT 118 (a) the moneys in the Housing Development Account and moneys held by the stakeholder shall vest in the official receiver, trustee in bankruptcy or liquidator as the case may be, to be applied for all or any of the purposes for which moneys in the Housing Development Account and moneys held by the stakeholder are authorized by regulations made under this Act to be withdrawn; and (b) any moneys remaining in the Housing Development Account and moneys held by the stakeholder, after all payments have been made pursuant to paragraph (a) and all liabilities and obligations of the licensed housing developer under the sale and purchase agreements in respect of the housing development have been fully discharged and fulfilled, shall be held by the official receiver, trustee in bankruptcy or liquidator, as the case may be, as money belonging to the licensed housing developer to be applied in accordance with the law relating to bankruptcy of or the winding -up of a company. (7) Notwithstanding any other written law to the contrary, all moneys in the Housing Development Account and moneys held by the stakeholder shall not be garnished until all liabilities and obligations of the licensed housing developer under the sale and purchase agreements in respect of the housing development have been fully discharged and fulfilled. (8) Subject to the Banking and Financial Institutions Act 1989 and the Islamic Banking Act 1983, the Minister may, if he thinks necessary, appoint an approved company auditor to investigate the books, accounts and transactions of a Housing Development Account and the licensed housing developer shall pay all expenses incurred hereto. (9) This section shall not apply to any housing development carried on by a licensed housing developer where all the housing accommodation in the housing development will not be offered for sale and purchase before the completion of the housing development and the issuance of certificate of completion and compliance. (10) Any housing developer who contravenes or fails to comply with this section shall be guilty of an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine which shall not be less than two hundred and fifty thousand ringgit 

Housing Development (Control and Licensing) 19 but which shall not exceed five hundred thousand ringgit and shall also be liable to imprisonment for a term not exceeding three years or to both. Licensed housing developer for the purpose of sections 7, 8, 8A, 11 and 12 7B. For the purpose of sections 7, 8, 8 A, 11 and 12, “licensed housing developer” includes any housing developer whose licence has expired. Freezing of the Housing Development Account 7C. (1) If the Controller has reason to believe that a licensed housing developer is carrying on his business in a manner detrimental to the interest of the purchasers or is contravening any of the provision of this Act, the Controller may in writing order a freeze on the Housing Development Account and direct the bank or finance company, as the case may be, not to part with, deal in or otherwise permit any withdrawal of any moneys from the Housing Development Account until the order is revoked or varied or unless in accordance with any conditions as may be imposed by the Controller at his absolute discretion from time to time during the currency of the order. (2) No bank or finance company, or director, officer or employee of the bank or finance company, as the case may be, shall be subject to any claim or demand by or liability to any person in respect of anything done or omitted to be done in good faith in pursuance of or execution or intended execution of or in connection with the execution or intended execution of an order of the Controller under subsection (1). (3) Any person who fails to comply with an order of the Controller under subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable to a fine not exceeding one hundred thousand ringgit. Arrangement or agreement affecting the business of a licensed housing developer 8. (1) Where a licensed housing developer proposes to enter into an arrangement or agreement to sell, transfer, assign, dispose of or reconstruct his business or management relating to housing development either by 

20 Laws of Malaysia ACT 118 amalgamation or otherwise, the licensed housing developer shall as soon as possible notify the Controller of the proposed arrangement or agreement and unless approved by the Controller under subsection (2), the licensed housing developer shall not proceed with that arrangement or agreement. (2) Where the Controller receives the notification of the proposed arrangement or agreement under subsection (1), the Controller may approve the arrangement or agreement or refuse to give approval thereto; and in approving the same he may impose thereon such conditions as he may deem fit and proper for the purpose of carrying into effect the provisions of this Act. Statutory termination of sale and purchase agreements 8A. (1) Notwithstanding anything contained in any agreement, a purchaser shall at any time be entitled to terminate the sale and purchase agreement entered into in respect of a housing development which the licensed housing developer is engaged in, carries on, undertakes or causes to be undertaken if — (a) the licensed housing developer refuses to carry out or delays or suspends or ceases work for a continuous period of six months or more after the execution of the sale and purchase agreement; (b) the purchaser has obtained the written consent from the end financier; and (c) the Controller has certified that the licensed housing developer has refused to carry out or delayed or suspended or ceased work for a continuous period of six months or more after the execution of the sale and purchase agreement. (2) For the purpose of paragraph (1) (b), no end financier shall unreasonably withhold its written consent to the termination of the sale and purchase agreement. (3) In the event that the purchaser exercises his right to terminate the sale and purchase agreement under subsection (1), the licensed housing developer shall within thirty days of such termination refund or cause to be refunded to such purchaser all monies received by the licensed housing developer from the purchaser free of any interest. 

Housing Development (Control and Licensing) 21 (4) Upon receipt of the refund under subsection (2), the purchaser shall immediately cause all encumbrances on the land to be removed and the cost and expenses for such removal shall be borne by the licensed housing developer and may be claimed as a civil debt from the licens ed housing developer. (5) Any person who fails to comply with this section shall be guilty of an offence and shall, on conviction , be liable to a fine which shall not be less than fifty thousand ringgit but which shall not exceed two hundred and fifty thousand ringgit and to a further fine not exceeding five thousand ringgit for every day during which the offence continues after conviction. (6) This section applies only to an agreement lawfully entered into between a purchaser and a licensed housing developer after the date of coming into operation of the Housing Develo pment ( Control and Licensing)(Amendment) Act 2012 [Act A1415]. Audit 9. (1) Subject to subsection (2), every licensed housing developer shall every year or as often as the need arises appoint a person approved by the Minister to be his auditor; and where a licensed housing developer fails to make the appointment or fails to appoint another auditor in place of an auditor who has resigned his office or dies or whose appointment has been terminated, the Minister may appoint any person who in his opinion is or are fit an d proper to be an auditor for the licensed housing developer in question and fix remunerations which shall be paid to the auditor so appointed and such remunerations shall be paid by the licensed housing developer for whom the auditor is or are so appointed. (2) No person having an interest in the business of a licensed housing developer either as a shareholder or otherwise; and no director, officer, employee or agent of a licensed housing developer shall be eligible for appointment as an auditor of the housing developer; and where any person who is appointed as an auditor of a licensed housing developer shall after his appointment acquire an interest in the business of the licensed housing developer or become a director, an officer, employee or agent of the licensed housing developer, he shall forthwith cease to be an auditor of that licensed housing developer. 

22 Laws of Malaysia ACT 118 (3) Every auditor of a licensed housing developer shall make a report to the Controller as to the annual balance-sheet and profit and loss accounts of the licensed housing developer for whom the auditor is appointed and shall state in every such report whether or not in his opinion— (a) the balance-sheet and the profit and loss accounts are properly drawn up and so as to give a true and fair account of the state of the licensed housing developer’s affairs; (b) the accounting and the records examined by him are properly kept; and (c) if the auditor has called for an explanation or information from the officers or agents of the licensed housing developer, such explanation or information has been satisfactory. (4) Every auditor of a licensed housing developer shall have a right of access at all times to the accounting and other records of the licensed housing developer and shall be entitled to require such information and explanation as he desires for the purpose of audit from the officers of the licensed housing developer or from any other person who is in possession of the information or who could give the information or explanation. (5) In addition to the duties and powers under this section, every auditor of a licensed housing developer may also exercisethe powers and perform the duties conferred or imposed upon the Controller and Inspectors under section 10 relating to the investigation into the affairs of a licensed housing developer or his accounting or other records. PART IV INVESTIGATION AND ENFORCEMENT Investigation 10. (1) Either on his own volition or upon being directed by the Minister under subsection (2), the Controller or an Inspector may from time to time under conditions of secrecy investigate the commission of any offence under this Act or investigate into the affairs of or into the accounting or other records of any housing developer. 

Housing Development (Control and Licensing) 23 (2) The Minister may direct the Controller or an Inspector to make an investigation under subsection (1)— (a) if he has reason to believe that the housing developer in question is carrying on his business in a manner detrimental to his purchasers; or has assets insufficient to meet his liabilities or is contravening any of the provisions of this Act; or (b) if an application for such an investigation is made to him, and every such application shall be supported by not less than five purchasers and accompanied with such evidence and such security as the Minis ter may require for the purpose of satisfying himself that the application is made in good faith, and of paying the costs of such an investigation. (3) (Deleted by Act A1142). Powers of entry, search and seizure 10A. (1) If it appears to a Magistrate, upon written information on oath and after such inquiry as he considers necessary, that there is reasonable cause to believe that any premises have been used or are about to be used for, or there is in or on any premises evidence necessary to establish, the commision of an offence under this Act, the Magistrate may issue a warrant authorizing an Inspector to whom it is directed, at any reasonable time by day or night and with or without assistance— (a) enter any premises and there search for, seize and d etain any property, book or other document; (b) inspect, make copies of, or take extracts from, any book or other document so seized and detained; (c) take possession of, and remove from the premises, any property, book or other document so seized and detained; (d) search any person who is in, or on, such premises, and for the purpose of such search detain such person and remove him to such place as may be necessary to facilitate such search, and 

24 Laws of Malaysia ACT 118 seize and detain any pr operty, book or other document found on such person; (e) break open, examine, and search, any article, container or receptacle; or (f) stop, detain or search any conveyance. (2) An Inspector authorized under subsection (1) may, if it is necessary so to do— (a) break open any outer or inner door of such premises and enter such premises and every part of such premises; (b) remove by force any obstruction to such entry, search, seizure, detention or removal; or (c) detain all or any persons found on any premises, or in any conveyance, searched under subsection (1) until such premises or conveyance have been searched. (3) If an Inspector has reasonable cause to suspect by reason of delay in obtaining a search warrant under subsection (1) that— (a) the investigation would be adversely affected; or (b) evidence of the commission of an offence is likely to be tampered with, removed, damage or destroyed, he may enter the premises and exercise in, and in respect of the premises, all the powers referred to in subsections (1) and (2) in as full and ample a manner as if he were authorized to do so by a warrant under subsection (1). (4) A list of all things seized in the course of a search made under this section and of the places in which they are respectively found shall be prepared by the Inspector conducting the search and signed by him. (5) The occupant of the premises entered under subsection (1), or some person on his behalf, shall in every instance be permitted to attend during the search, and a copy of the list prepared and signed under subsection (4) shall immediately be delivered to such occupant or person. (6) An Inspector shall, unless otherwise ordered by any court— 

Housing Development (Control and Licensing) 25 (a) on the close of investigations or any proceedings arising therefrom; or (b) with the prior written consent of the Controller for the Inspector to act on his behalf for this purpose at any time before the close of investigations, release any property, book or other document seized, detained or removed by him or any other Inspector, to su ch person as he determines to be lawfully entitled to the property, book or other document if he is satisfied that it is not required for the purpose of any prosecution or proceedings under this Act, or for the purpose of any prosecution under any other written law. (7) A record in writing shall be made by the Inspector effecting any release of any property, book or other document under subsection (6) in respect of such release specifying therein in detail the circumstances of, and the reason for, such release. (8) Where the Inspector is unable to determine the person who is lawfully entitled to the property, book or other document or where there is more than one claimant to such property, book or other document, the Inspector shall report the matter to a Magistrate who shall then deal with the property, book or other document as provided for in subsections 413(2), (3) and (4) and sections 414, 415 and 416 of the Criminal Procedure Code [ Act 593 ]. Search of person 10B. (1) An Inspector may search any person whom he has reason to believe has on his person any property, book or other document, or other article necessary, in his opinion, for the purpose of an investigation into any offence under this Act, and for the purpose of such search may detain such person for such period as may be necessary to have the search carried out, which shall not in any case exceed twenty -four hours without the authorization of a Magistrate, and may remove him in custody to such place as may be necessary to facilitate such search. (2) An Inspector making a search of a person under subsection (1) may seize, detain, or take possession of any property, book or other document, or article, found upon such person for the purpose of the investigation being carried out by him. 

26 Laws of Malaysia ACT 118 (3) No female person shall be searched under this section or under section 10 A except by another female person and with strict regard for decency. Obstruction to exercise of powers by an Inspector 10C. No person shall— (a) refuse any Inspector exercising his powers under section 10A or 10B access to any premises or any part of such premises, or fail to submit to the search of his person; (b) assault, obstruct, hinder or delay such Inspector in effecting any entrance which he is entitled to effect; (c) fail to comply with any lawful demands of any Inspector in the execution of his duties under section 10A or 10B; (d) refuse to give to an Inspector any information which may reasonably be required of him and which he has it in his power to give; (e) fail to produce to, or conceal or attempt to conceal from, an Inspector, any property, book, other document, or article in relation to which an Inspector has reasonable grounds for suspecting that an offence has been or is being committed under this Act; (f) rescue or endeavour to rescue any thing which has been duly seized; (g) furnish to the Inspector as true any information which he knows or has reason to believe to be false; or (h) before or after any seizure, break or otherwise destroy any thing to prevent the seizure or the securing of the thing. 

Housing Development (Control and Licensing) 27 Requirement to provide translation 10D. (1) Where an Inspector finds, seizes, detains, or takes possession of any book or other document in the exercise of any power under this Act, and such book or other document or any part of it is in a language other than the national language or the English language, or in any sign or code, the Inspector may orally or in writing require the person who had the possession, custody or control of such book or other document, to furnish to the Inspector a translation in the national language of such book or other document within such period as, in the opinion of the Inspector, would be reasonable having regard to the length of the book or other document, or other circumstances relating to it. (2) No person shall knowingly furnish a translation under subsection (1) which is not an accurate, faithful and true translation, or knowingly make a translation under that subsection which is not accurate, faithful and true. Power to examine persons 10E. (1) Where an Inspector suspects any person to have committed an offence under this Act, he may, if in his opinion it is reasonably necessary to do so for the purposes of investigating into such offence— (a) order any person orally or in writing to attend befo re the Inspector for the purpose of being examined orally by the Inspector in relation to any matter which may, in the opinion of the Inspector, assist in the investigation into the offence; (b) order any person orally or in writing to produce before the Controller or the Inspector books, other documents, property, articles, or things which may, in the opinion of the Controller or the Inspector, assist in the investigation into the offence; or (c) by written notice require any person to furnish a statement in writing made on oath or affirmation setting out in the notice all such information which may be required under the notice, being information which, in the opinion of the Controller, would be of assistance in the investigation into the offence. 

28 Laws of Malaysia ACT 118 (2) A person to whom an order under paragraph (1) (a) or (b), or a written notice under paragraph (1) (c), has been given shall comply with the terms of such order or written notice, as the case may be, and, in particular— (a) a person to whom an order under paragraph (1) (a) has been given shall attend in accordance with the terms of the order to be examined, and shall continue to so attend from day to day as directed by the Inspector until the examination is completed, and shall during such examination disclose all information which is within his knowledge, or which is available to him, or which is capable of being obtained by him, in respect of the matter in relation to which he is being examined, whether or not any question is put to him with regard thereto, and where any question is put to him he shall answer the question truthfully and to the best of his knowledge and belief, and shall not refuse to answer any question on the ground that it tends to incriminate him; (b) a person to whom an order has been given under paragr aph (1)(b) shall not conceal, hide, destroy, alter, remove from or send out of Malaysia, or deal with, expend, or dispose of, any book, other document, property, article, or thing specified in the order, or alter or deface any entry in any such book or other document, or cause such act to be done, or assist or conspire to do the act; and (c) a person to whom a written notice has been given under paragraph (1) (c) shall, in his statement made on oath or affirmation, furnish and disclose truthfully all information required under the notice which is within his knowledge, or which is available to him, or which is capable of being obtained by him, and shall not fail to furnish or disclose the information on the ground that it tends to incriminate him. (3) A person to whom an order or a notice is given under subsection (1) shall comply with such order or notice and with the provisions of subsection (2) in relation to the order or notice, notwithstanding the provisions of any written law, whether enacted before or after the commencement of this Act, or of any oath, undertaking or requirement of secrecy, to the contrary, or of any obligation under any contract, agreement of arrangement, whether express or implied, to the contrary. 

Housing Development (Control and Licensing) 29 (4) Where any person discloses any information or produces any property, book, other document, article, or thing, pursuant to subsections (1) and (2), neither the first-mentioned person, nor any other person on whose behalf or direction or as whose agent or employee the first-mentioned person may be acting, shall, on account of such disclosure or production, be liable to any prosecution for any offence under or by virtue of any law, or to any proceeding or claim in any form or of any description by any person under or by virtue of any agreement or arrangement, or otherwise. (5) An Inspector may seize, take possession of and retain for such duration as he deems necessary, any property, book, other document, article or thing produced before him in the course of an investigation under subsection (1), or search the person who is being examined by him under paragraph (1)(a), or who produces anything to him under paragraph (1)(b), for ascertaining whether anything relevant to the investigation is concealed, upon such person or is otherwise upon such person. (6) An examination under paragraph (1) (a) shall be reduced into writing by the Inspector and shall be read to and signed by the person being examined, and where such person refuses to sign the record, the Inspector shall endorse on the record under his hand the fact of such refusal and the reasons for such refusal, if any, stated by the person examined. (7) The record of an examination under paragraph (1) (a), or a written statement on oath or affirmation made pursuant to paragraph (1)(c), or any property, book, other document, article or thing produced under paragraph (1)(b) or in the course of an examination under paragraph (1)(a) or under a written statement on oath or affirmation made pursuant to paragraph (1)(c), shall, notwithstanding any written law or rule of law to the contrary, be admissible in evidence in any proceedings in any court— (a) for, or in relation to, an offence under this Act; or (b) for, or in relation to, any other matter under this Act, regardless whether such proceedings are against the person who was examined, or who produced the property, book, other document, article or thing, or who made the written statement on oath or affirmation, or against any other person. 

30 Laws of Malaysia ACT 118 Specific persons in respect of whom powers of investigation may be exercised 10F. The powers of investigation conferred by this Act on an Inspector, may be exercised by him against— (a) any past or present business associate; or (b) any person who is or was concerned in the control or management, in whole or in part of the affairs, of the person suspected to have committed an offence under this Act. Assistance to police or other public officer 10G. The Controller may on his own initiative, or on the request of an Inspector— (a) supply to a police officer or any other public officer a copy of any book or other document seized, detained or taken possession of under section 10 A or 10 B, or of any record of examination under paragraph 10 E(1)(a), or of any written statement on oath or affirmation made under paragraph 10E(1)(c), or of any book or other document produced under paragraph 10 E(1)(b), or otherwise in the course of any examination under paragraph 10 E(1)(a), or under any written statement on oath or affirmation made pursuant to paragraph 10E(1)(c), and such police officer or other public officer may make such use of such copy of such record, statement, book or other document as may be necessary or expedient in relation to the exercise of his powers, the performance of his functions, or thedischarge of his duties, in respect of any person; or (b) allow a police officer or any other public officer to have access to and inspect any property, book, other document, article or thing which had been produced before, or seized, detained or taken possession of, by an Inspector under this Act, and such police or other public officer may make such use of any knowledge gained by such access or inspection as may be necessary or expedient in relation to the exercise of his powers, 

Housing Development (Control and Licensing) 31 the performance of his functions, or the discharge of his duties, in respect of any person. Protection of informers 10H. (1) Except as provided in subsection (3), no witness in any civil or criminal proceedings shall be obliged or permitted to disclose the name or address of any informer or the substance and nature of the information received from him or to state any matter which may lead to his discovery. (2) If any books, documents, records or papers which are in evidence or are liable to inspection in any civil or criminal proceedings contain any entry in which any informer is named or described or which might lead to his discovery, the court shall cause all such passages to be concealed from view or to be obliterated so far only as may be necessary to protect the informer from discovery. (3) If on trial for any offence under this Act the court after full inquiry into the case believes that the informer willfully made in his complaint a material statement which he knew or believed to be false or did not believe to be true, or if in any other proceeding the court is of the opinion that justice cannot be fully done between the parties to the proceeding without the discovery of the informer, it shall be lawful for the court to require the production of the original complaint, if in writing, and permit enquiry, and require full disclosure, concerning the informer. Authority to act 10I. An Inspector when acting under this Part shall on demand declare his office and produce to the person against whom he is acting such written authorization as the Controller may direct to be carried by such Inspector. Limitation on the powers of an Inspector 10J. No Inspector shall be entitled to exercise any of the powers under this Part without prior written authorization from the Controller. 

32 Laws of Malaysia ACT 118 Penalty for obstruction and failure to provide translation 10K. Any person who contravenes section 10 C, subsection 10 D(2) or section 10E shall be guilty of an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine which shall not be less than ten thousand ringgit but which shall not exceed one hundred thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding five years or to both. PART V POWERS OF MINISTER Powers of the Minister to give directions for the purpose of safeguarding the interests of purchasers 11. (1) Where on his own volition a licensed housing developer informs the Controller or where as a result of an investigation made under section 10 or for any other reason the Controller is of the opinion that the licensed housing developer becomes unable to meet his obligations to his purchasers or is about to suspend his building operations or is carrying on his business in a manner detrimental to the interests of his purchasers, the Minister may without prejudice to the generality of the powers of the Minister to give directions under section 12 for the purpose of safeguarding the interests of the purchasers of the licensed hou sing developer— (a) direct the licensed housing developer in question to take such steps as he may consider necessary to rectify any matter or circumstance; (b) direct that a person be appointed or himself appoint a person to advise the licensed housing developer in the conduct of his business; (c) direct a company to assume control and carry on the business of the housing developer upon such terms and conditions as the Minister may determine; (ca) certify that the licensed housing developer has abandoned the housing development; 

Housing Development (Control and Licensing) 33 (d) direct that the licensed housing developer present a petition to the High Court for the winding up of his business; or (e) take such action as the Minister may consider necesary in the circumstances of the case for carrying into effect the provisions of this Act. (1A) In giving his direction or decision under paragraph (1)(a), (b), (c) or (e), the Minister may specify that any cost and expense reasonably incurred by such persons as may be specified by the Minister in carrying out such direction or decision of the Minister shall be paid from the Housing Development Account of the housing development or from the moneys due to the Account. (2) Every such direction of the Minister made under subsection (1) shall be binding on the licensed housing developer and the purchasers. (3) Where a company has, in pursuance of a direction of the Minister under paragraph (1)(c), assumed control of and carried on the business of a licensed housing developer, the following provisions shall apply: (a) the licensed housing developer in question shall submit his business to the control of the company and shall provide the company with such facilities as the Controller may consider necessary for the purpose of carrying on the business of the licensed housing developer; (b) the company shall take over and become in control of and continue to carry on the business of the licensed housing developer until such time as the Minister may in writing otherwise direct; and (c) every such assumption and cessation of control of the business of a licensed housing developer pursuant to a direction of the Minister made under paragraph (1) (c) shall be published by the Controller in the Gazette. Powers of the Minister to give general directions 12. The Minister may give to a licensed housing developer such directions as he considers fit and proper for the purpose of ensuring 

34 Laws of Malaysia ACT 118 compliance with this Act, and any such direction shall be made in writing and shall be binding on the licensed housing developer to whom the direction is made. Revocation and suspension of a licence 13. If any licensed housing developer— (a) is carrying on his business, in the opinion of the Controller, in a manner detrimental to the interest of the purchasers or to any member of the public; (b) has insufficient assets to cover his liabilities; (c) is contravening any of the provisions of this Act; or (d) has ceased to carry on housing development in Peninsular Malaysia, the Controller may subject to section 14 relating to the giving of opportunity of being heard revoke the licence issued to the licensed housing developer or suspend it for such period as the Controller may determine. Controller to report the conduct of an architect or engineer 13A. Where the Controller is satisfied that the conduct of an architect or engineer of a housing developer has prejudiced the interest of the purchaser of the licensed housing developer, the Controller may report such conduct of the architect or engineer to his respective professional body. Transfer or assignment of a licence 13B. No licence or any right to the licence issued to a housing developer under this Act shall be transferred or assigned and any such transfer or assignment shall be void. 

Housing Development (Control and Licensing) 35 Opportunity of being heard to be afforded before revocation or suspension of a licence and in certain other cases 14. Before revoking or suspending a licence under section 13 or before varying, cancelling or altering any conditions imposed on a licence or before imposing thereon any new or additional conditions under subsection 5(5), the Controller shall notify the housing developer who is affected by the action proposed to be taken by the Controller of the aforesaid proposed action and shall give the licensed housing developer an opportunity to submit reasons or an explanation why the aforesaid proposed action should not be carried out. Individual not eligible to take part in management of the business of a licensed housing developer 15. (1) Without prejudice to anything contained in any written law relating to companies, cooperative societies, societies and partnerships, any person who acts or holds office of a director, manager or secretary of a licensed housing developer or a similar office or position shall cease to hold that office or position— (a) if he becomes bankrupt or suspends payment or compounds with his creditors; or (b) if he is convicted of an offence involving dishonesty or fraud. (2) No person who has been a director of, or been directly concerned in the management of, the business of a licensed housing developer which has been wound up by a court shall, without the approval in writing of the Minister, act or continue to act as a director of, or be directly concerned in, the management of the business of any licensed housing developer. Right of appeal to the Minister by an aggrieved licensed housing developer against the decision of the Controller 16. An applicant applying under subsection 5(3) or a licensed housing developer, as the case may be, who is aggrieved by the action or decision of the Controller— (a) in refusing to grant a licence to him under section 5; 

36 Laws of Malaysia ACT 118 (b) in varying, altering or cancelling any conditions of his licence or imposing thereon any new or additional conditions under subsection 5(5); (c) in refusing to give approval to an arrangement or agreement proposed to be entered into by a licensed housing developer under section 8, or in approving the same but subject to conditions being imposed thereon; or (d) in revoking or suspending his licence under section 13, may, within fourteen days after having been notified of the action or decision of the Controller appeal against that action or decision to the Minister; and the decision of the Minister made thereon shall be final and shall not be questioned in any court. PART VI TRIBUNAL FOR HOMEBUYER CLAIMS Meaning of “homebuyer” 16A. For the purpose of this Part, “homebuyer” means a purchaser and includes a person who has subsequently purchased a housing accommodation from the first purchaser of the housing accommodation. Establishment of Tribunal for Homebuyer Claims 16B. A tribunal to be known as the “Tribunal for Homebuyer Claims” is established. Membership of Tribunal 16C. (1) The Tribunal shall consist of the following members: (a) a Chairman and a Deputy Chairman to be appointed by the Minister from amongst members of the Judicial and Legal Service; and 

Housing Development (Control and Licensing) 37 (b) not less than five other members to be appointed by the Minister from amongst persons who are members of or who have held office in the Judicial and Legal Service or advocates and solicitors admitted and enrolled under the Legal Profession Act 1976 [ Act 166], the Advocates Ordinance of Sabah [Sabah Cap. 2] or the Advocates Ordinance of Sarawak [Sarawak Cap. 110] and who have not less than seven years’ standing. (2) The members referred to in paragraph (1)(b)— (a) shall hold office for a term not exceeding three years; and (b) shall be eligible for reappointment upon the expiry of his term of office but shall not be appointed for more than three consecutive terms. Temporary exercise of functions of Chairman 16D. Where the Chairman is for any reason unable to perform his functions or during any period of vacancy in the office of the Chairman, the Deputy Chairman shall perform the functions of the Chairman. Vacation of office 16E. The office of a member of the Tribunal shall become vacant— (a) upon the death of the member; (b) upon the member resigning from such office by giving three months’ written notice to the Minister; (c) upon the expiry of his term of office; or (d) upon the member ceasing to be an advocate and solicitor under the Legal Profession Act 1976, the Advocates Ordinance of Sabah or the Advocates Ordinance of Sarawak. 

38 Laws of Malaysia ACT 118 Revocation of appointment 16F. The Minister may revoke the appointment of a member of the Tribunal appointed under paragraph 16C(1)(b)— (a) if his conduct, whether in connection with his duties as a member of the Tribunal or otherwise, has been such as to bring discredit to the Tribunal; (b) if he has become incapable of properly carrying out his duties as a member of the Tribunal; (c) if there has been proved against him, or he has been convicted on, a charge in respect of— (i) an offence involving fraud, dishonesty or moral turpitude; (ii) an offence under a law relating to corruption; (iii) an offence under this Act; or (iv) any other offence punishable with imprisonment for more than two years; (d) if he is adjudicated a bankrupt; (e) if he has been found or declared to be of unsound mind or has otherwise become incapable of managing his affairs; or (f) if he absents himself from three consecutive sittings of the Tribunal without leave of the Chairman. Resignation 16G. A member of the Tribunal appointed under paragraph 16C(1)(b) may at any time resign his office by giving three months’ written notice to the Minister. 

Housing Development (Control and Licensing) 39 Filling of vacancy 16H. Where a member ceases to be a member of the Tribunal, the Minister may appoint another person to fill the vacancy. Remuneration 16I. (1) The members of the Tribunal appointed under paragraph 16C(1)(a) shall be paid such fixed allowances and other allowances as the Minister may determine. (2) The members of the Tribunal appointed under paragraph 16C(1)(b) shall be paid— (a) a daily sitting allowance during the sitting of the Tribunal; and (b) such lodging, travelling and subsistence allowances, as the Minister may determine. (3) The remuneration provided for in subsections (1) and (2) shall be charged on the Consolidated Fund. Secretary to Tribunal and other officers 16J. (1) There shall be appointed a Secretary to the Tribunal and such number of officers as may be necessary for carrying out the functions of the Tribunal. (2) The Chairman shall have general control of the officers of the Tribunal. (3) For the purposes of this Act, the Secretary to the Tribunal shall be deemed to be an officer of the Tribunal. Sittings of Tribunal 16K. (1) The jurisdiction of the Tribunal shall be exercised by any of the following persons sitting alone: 

40 Laws of Malaysia ACT 118 (a) the Chairman of the Tribunal; (b) the Deputy Chairman of the Tribunal; or (c) any member of the Tribunal determined by the Chairman. (2) The Tribunal may sit in one or more sittings on such day and at such time and place as the Chairman may determine. (3) If the person presiding over any proceedings in respect of a claim dies or becomes incapacitated, or is for any other reason unable to complete or dispose of the proceedings, the claim shall be heard afresh by another member of the Tribunal, unless the parties agree that the claim be continued by another member of the Tribunal. (4) Where the term of appointment of any member of the Tribunal under this section expires during the pendency of any proceedings in respect of a claim, the term of his appointment shall be deemed to be extended until the final disposal of the claim. Commencement of proceedings 16L. A homebuyer may lodge with the Tribunal a claim in the prescribed form together with the prescribed fee claiming for any loss suffered or any matter concerning his interests as a homebuyer under this Act. Jurisdiction of Tribunal 16M. (1) Subject to sections 16 N and 16 O, the Tribunal shall have jurisdiction to determine a claim lodged under section 16L where the total amount in respect of which an award of the Tribunal is sought does not exceed fifty thousand ringgit. (2) Subject to subsection (1), a respondent to a claim may raise a debt or liquidated demand as— (a) a defence; or (b) a counterclaim. 

Housing Development (Control and Licensing) 41 (3) Where a respondent raises a debt or liquidated demand under subsection (2) and the debt or demand is proved the Tribunal shall— (a) give effect to the defence; or (b) hear and determine the counterclaim notwithstanding that the original claim is withdrawn, abandoned or struck out. (4) Any claim lodged with the Tribunal may include loss or damage of a consequential nature. Limitation of jurisdiction 16N. (1) Except as expressly provided under this Act, the Tribunal shall have no jurisdiction in respect of any claim— (a) for the recovery of land, or any estate or interest in land; and (b) in which there is a dispute concerning— (i) the entitlement of any person under a will or settlement, or on intestacy (including partial intestacy); (ii) goodwill; or (iii) any trade secret or other intellectual property right. (2) The jurisdiction of the Tribunal shall be limited to a claim that is based on a cause of action arising from the sale and purchase agreement entered into between the homebuyer and the housing developer which is brought by a homebuyer not later than twelve months from— (a) the date of issuance of the certificate of completion and compliance for the housing accommodation or the common facilities of the housing accommodation intended for subdivision, whichever is later; (b) the expiry date of the defects liability period as set out in the sale and purchase agreement; or 

42 Laws of Malaysia ACT 118 (c) the date of termination of the sale and purchase agreement by either party and such termination occurred before the date of issuance of the certificate of completi on and compliance for the housing accommodation or the common facilities of the housing accommodation intended for subdivision, whichever is later. (3) Notwithstanding subsection (2) no claim shall be affected or defeated on the ground that no sale an purchase agreement has been entered into between the homebuyer and the licensed housing developer at the time when the cause of action accrues if thereexists a previous dealing between the homebuyer and the licensed housing developer in respect of the acquisition of the housing accommodation. (4) Nothing in this section shall be deemed to authorize the Tribunal to deal with a claim arising from personal injury or death. (5) For the purposes of subsection (1), “land” does not include fixtures. Extension of jurisdiction by agreement 16O. (1) Notwithstanding that the amount or value of the subject matter claimed or in issue exceeds fifty thousand ringgit, the Tribunal shall have jurisdiction to hear and determine the claim if the parties have entered into an agreement in writing that the Tribunal shall have jurisdiction to hear and determine the claim. (2) An agreement may be made under subsection (1)— (a) before a claim is lodged under section 16L; or (b) where a claim has been lodged under section 16L, at any time before the Tribunal has recorded an agreed settlement in respect of the claim under subsection 16T(3) or has determined the claim under section 16Y, as the case may be. 

Housing Development (Control and Licensing) 43 Abandonment to bring claim within jurisdiction 16P. (1) A claimant may abandon so much of a claim as exceeds fifty thousand ringgit in order to bring the claim within the jurisdiction of the Tribunal. (2) Where a part of a claim has been abandoned under subsection (1), the Tribunal’s record of an agreed sett lement under subsection 16T(3) or the Tribunal’s award under section 16 Y, as the case may be, in relation to the claim shall operate to discharge the person— (a) who is a party to that agreed settlement; or (b) against whom the claim is brought and the subsequent award is made, from liability in respect of the amount so abandoned. Claims not to be split 16Q. Claims may not be split, nor more than one claim brought, in respect of the same matter against the same party for the purpose of bringing it within the jurisdiction of the Tribunal. Exclusion of jurisdiction of court 16R. (1) Where a claim is lodged with the Tribunal and the claim is within the Tribunal’s jurisdiction, the issues in dispute in that claim, whether as shown in the initial claim or as emerging in the course of the hearing, shall not be the subject of proceedings between the same parties in any court unless— (a) the proceedings before the court were commenced before the claim was lodged with the Tribunal; or (b) the claim before th e Tribunal is withdrawn, abandoned or struck out. (2) Where paragraph (1)(a) applies, the issues in dispute in the claim to which those proceedings relate, whether as shown in the initial claim or 

44 Laws of Malaysia ACT 118 emerging in the course of the hearing, shall not be the subject of proceedings between the same parties before the Tribunal unless the claim before the court is withdrawn, abandoned or struck out. Notice of claim and hearing 16S. Upon a claim being lodged under section 16 L, the Secretary to the Tribunal shall give notice of the details of the day, time and place of hearing in the prescribed form to the claimant and the respondent. Negotiation for settlement 16T. (1) The Tribunal shall, as regards every claim within its jurisdiction, assess whether, in all the circumstances, it is appropriate for the Tribunal to assist the parties to negotiate an agreed settlement in relation to the claim. (2) Without limiting the generality of subsection (1), in making an assessment the Tribunal shall have regard to any factors that, in the opinion of the Tribunal, are likely to impair the ability of either or both of the parties to negotiate an agreed settlement. (3) Where the parties reach an agreed settlement, the Tribunal shall approve and record the settlement and the settlement shall then take effect as if it were an award of the Tribunal. (4) Where— (a) it appears to the Tribunal that it would not be appropriate for it to assist the parties to negotiate an agreed settlement in relation to the claim; or (b) the parties are unable to reach an agreed settlement in relation to the claim, the Tribunal shall proceed to determine the dispute. 

Housing Development (Control and Licensing) 45 Right to appear at hearings 16U. (1) At the hearing of a claim every party shall be entitled to attend and be heard. (2) No party shall be represented by an advocate and solicitor at a hearing unless in the opinion of the Tribunal the matter in question involves complex issues of law and one party will suffer severe financial hardship if he is not represented by an advoc ate and solicitor; but if one party is subsequently allowed to be represented by an advocate and solicitor then the other party shall also be so entitled. (3) Subject to subsection (2) but notwithstanding section 37 of the Legal Profession Act 1976 [Act 166]— (a) a corporation or an unincorporated body of persons may be represented by a full-time paid employee of the corporation or body; (b) a minor or any other person under a disability may be represented by his next friend or guardian ad litem. (4) Where a party is represented as permitted under subsection (3), the Tribunal may impose such conditions as it considers necessary to ensure that the other party to the proceedings is not substantially disadvantaged. Proceedings to be public 16v. All proceedings before the Tribunal shall be open to the public. Evidence 16W. (1) The Tribunal may— (a) procure and receive all such evidence on oath or affirmation, whether written or oral, and examine all such persons as witnesses, as the Tribunal thinks necessary to procure, receive or examine; 

46 Laws of Malaysia ACT 118 (b) require the production before it of books, papers, documents, records and things; (c) administer such oath, affirmation or statutory declaration as the case may require; (d) seek and receive such other evidence and make such other inquiries as it thinks fit; (e) summon the parties to the proceedings or any other person to attend before it to give evidence or to produce any document, records or other thing in his possession or otherwise to assist the Tribunal in its deliberations; (f) receive expert evidence; and (g) generally direct and do all such things as may be necessary or expedient for the expeditious determination of the claim. (2) A summons issued under this section shall be served and enforced as if it were a summons issued by a subordinate court. Tribunal may act in absence of party 16X. The Tribunal may hear and determine the claim before it notwithstanding the absence of any party to the proceedings if it is proved to the satisfaction of the Tribunal that a notice of the hearing has been duly served on the absent party. Awards of the Tribunal 16Y. (1) The Tribunal shall make its award without delay and, where practicable, within sixty days from the first day the hearing before the Tribunal commences. (2) An award of the Tribunal under subsection (1) may require one or more of the following: (a) that a party to the proceedings pay money to any other party; 

Housing Development (Control and Licensing) 47 (b) that the price or other consideration paid by the homebuyer or any other person be refunded to the homebuyer or that person; (c) that a party comply with the sale and purchase agreement; (d) that money be awarded to compensate for any loss or damage suffered by the claimant; (e) that the contract be varied or set aside, wholly or in part; (f) that costs to or against any party be paid; (g) that interest be paid on any sum or monetary award at a rate not exceeding eight per centum per annum, unless it has been otherwise agreed between the parties; (h) that the claim is dismissed. (3) Nothing in paragraph (2)(d) or (f) shall be deemed to empower the Tribunal to award any damages for any non-pecuniary loss or damage. (4) The Tribunal may at any time rectify or correct clerical mistake in any award or errors arising therein from any accidental slip or omission. Reference to a Judge of the High Court on a question of law 16Z. (1) Before the Tribunal makes an award under section 16 Y, it may, in its discretion, refer to a Judge of the High Court a question of law— (a) which arose in the course of the proceedings; (b) which, in the opinion of the Tribunal, is of sufficient importance to merit such reference; and (c) the determination of which by the Tribunal raises, in the opinion of the Tribunal, sufficient doubt to merit such reference. (2) If the Tribunal refers any question of law under subsection (1) for the decision of a Judge of the High Court, it shall make its award in conformity with such decision. 

48 Laws of Malaysia ACT 118 (3) A Federal Counsel authorized by the Attorney General for the purpose may appear on behalf of the Tribunal in any proceedings before a Judge of the High Court under this section. Reasons for decision 16AA. The Tribunal shall in all proceedings give its reasons for its award in the proceedings. Orders and settlement to be recorded in writing 16AB. The Tribunal shall make or cause to be made a written record of the terms of— (a) every agreed settlement reached by the parties under subsection 16T(3); and (b) every award made by it under section 16Y. Decisions of Tribunal to be final 16AC. (1) Every agreed settlement recorded by the Tribunal under subsection 16 T(3) and every award made by the Tribunal under section 16Y— (a) shall be final and binding on all parties to the proceedings; and (b) shall be deemed to be an order of a Magistrate’s Court or a Sessions Court, as the case may be , and be enforced accordingly by any party to the proceedings; (2) For the purpose of paragraph (1)(b), in cases where the award made by the Tribunal has not been complied with, the Secretary to the Tribunal shall send a copy of the award made by the Tribunal to the Magistrate’s Court or the Sessions Court, as the case may be, having jurisdiction in the place to which the award relates or in the place where the award was made and the Court shall cause the copy to be recorded. 

Housing Development (Control and Licensing) 49 Criminal penalty for failure to comply 16AD. (1) Any person who fails to comply with an award made by the Tribunal within the period specified by the Tribunal commits an offence and shall on conviction be liable to a fine which shall not be less than ten thousand ringgit but which shall not exceed fifty thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding two years or to both. (2) In the case of a continuing offence, the offender shall, in addition to the penalties under subsection (1), be liable to a fine not exceeding one thousand ringgit for each day or part of a day during which the offence continues after conviction. Procedure where no provision is made 16AE. Subject to this Act and to any regulations, the Tribunal shall adopt such procedure as it thinks fit and proper. Want of form 16AF. No proceedings of the Tribunal or award or other document of the Tribunal shall be set aside or quashed for want of form. Disposal of documents, etc. 16AG. (1) The Tribunal may, at the conclusion of the proceedings before it, order that any document, record, material or other property produced during the proceedings be delivered to the rightful owner or be disposed of in such manner as it thinks fit. (2) Where no person has taken deliv ery of the document, record, material or other property referred to in subsection (1) after a period of six months, the ownership in the document, record, material or other property shall be deemed to have passed to and become vested in the Government. 

50 Laws of Malaysia ACT 118 Act or omission done in good faith 16AH. No action or suit shall be instituted or maintained in any court against— (a) the Tribunal; (b) a member of the Tribunal; or (c) a person authorized to act for or on behalf of the Tribunal, for any act or omission done in good faith in the performance of its or his functions and the exercise of its or his powers under this Act. Regulations in respect of the Tribunal 16AI. (1) The Minister may make such regulations as may be necessary or expedient in respect of the Tribunal. (2) Without prejudice to the generality of subsection (1), regulations may be made for— (a) prescribing the responsibilities of members of the Tribunal; (b) prescribing the procedure of the Tribunal; (c) prescribing the forms to be used in proceedings under this Part; (d) prescribing and imposing fees and providing for the manner for collecting and disbursing such fees; (e) prescribing anything required to be prescribed under this Part. 

Housing Development (Control and Licensing) 51 PART VII MISCELLANEOUS Indemnity and protection against suit and proceedings 17. No action shall lie against the Government, the Minister, the Controller, Inspector or against any officer of the Government or any person acting under the direction of the Minister, the Controller or Inspector for damages in any civil court for anything bona fide done, ordered or omitted to be done pursuant to this Act; and all actions which may lawfully be brought in respect of anything done, ordered or omitted to be done pursuant to this Act shall be instituted within six months from the date of the act or omission complained of, and not afterwards. Offences relating to a licence under section 5 18. Any housing developer who— (a) in contravention of subsection 5(1) engages in, carries out, or undertakes housing development without having been duly licensed under that section; (b) in contravention of subsection 5(2) assumes or uses in relation to his business or any part of his business the words “housing developer” or any of the derivatives or any other word indicating the carrying on of the business of housing development; or (c) fails to comply with any of the conditions imposed on the licence granted under section 5, shall be guilty of an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine which shall not be less than two hundred and fifty thousand ringgit but which shall not exceed five hundred thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding five years or to both. 

52 Laws of Malaysia ACT 118 Offences relating to abandonment of housing development by a licensed housing developer 18A. (1) Any licensed housing developer who abandons or causes to be abandoned a housing development or any phase of a housing development which the licensed housing developer is engaged in, carries on, undertakes or causes to be undertaken shall be guilty of an of fences and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine which shall not be less than two hundred and fifty thousand ringgit or to imprisonm ent for a term not exceeding three years or to both. (2) For the purpose of this section, “abandons” means refuses to carry out or delays or suspends or ceases work continuously for a period of six months or more or beyond the stipulated period of completion as agreed under the sale and purchase agreement. Offences by a housing developer 19. Any housing developer who— (a) in contravention of any of the provisions of section 7 fails to perform any of the duties imposed by that section; (aa) enters into an arrangement or agreement in contravention of section 8 or fails to comply with any condition imposed pursuant to subsection (2) of that section; (b) (Deleted by Act A1142); (c) after the Minister has, pursuant to paragraph 11(1)(c), directed a company to assume control of and carry on the business of the housing developer, in contravention of subsection 11(3) fails to submit his business to the control of that company or fails to provide the company with such facilities as the Controller may consider necessary or the purpose of carrying on the business of the licensed housing developer; (cc) fails to comply with any direction given by the Minister under paragraph 11(1)(a), (b), (d) or (e); or (d) in contravention of section 12, fails to comply with any direction given by the Minister under that section, 

Housing Development (Control and Licensing) 53 shall be guilty of an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine which shall not be less than fifty thousand ringgit but which shall not exceed two hundred and fifty thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding three years or to both and shall also be liable to a further fine not exceeding five hundred ringgit for every day during which the offence is continued after the conviction. Offences by a director of or a person connected with the business of a licensed housing developer in certain cases 20. Any person who— (a) in contravention of subsection 15(1) continues to act as or hold office of a director, manager or secretary of a licensed housing developer or any similar office or position in the employ of the licensed housing developer notwithstanding that he has become bankrupt or suspen ded payment to or compounded with his creditors or is convicted of an offence involving fraud or dishonesty; or (b) in contravention of subsection 15(2) acts as or holds or continues to act as or hold office of a director or is directly concerned in the management of the business of any licensed housing developer without the approval in writing of the Minister after the business of that licensed housing developer has been wound up by a court, shall be guilty of an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to imprisonment for a term which shall not be less than twelve months but which shall not exceed three years and shall also be liable to a fine which shall not be less than fifty thousand ringgit but which shall not exceed two hundred and fifty thousand ringgit. Penalty for offences not otherwise provided for 21. Any housing developer guilty of an offence against this Act for which no penalty is expressly provided shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding two hundred and fifty thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding three years or to both. 

54 Laws of Malaysia ACT 118 Liability of director, manager and other officials for offences committed by companies and liability of a person for acts done by others 22. (1) Where any offence against any provision of this Act has been committed by a housing developer, any person who at the time of the omission of the offence was a director, manager or secretary or holds any similar office or position or was an agent, clerk or servant of the housing developer shall be deemed to be guilty of that offence, unless he proves that the offence was committed without his consent or connivance and that he exercised all such diligence to prevent the commission of the offence as he ought to have exercised, having regard to the nature of his functions in that capacity and to all the circumstances and shall, on conviction, be liable to imprisonment for a term which shall not be less than twelve months but which shall not exceed three years and shall also be liable to a fine which shall not be less than fifty thousand ringgit but shall not exceed two hundred and fifty thousand ringgit. (2) Any person liable under this Act to any punishment or penalty for any act or omission shall be liable to the same punishment or penalty for any such act or omission by— (a) his partner; (b) his agent acting on his behalf; (c) his clerk or servant acting in the course of his employment; or (d) the clerk or servant of his partner or agent acting in the course of employment in circumstances that had the act or omission been committed by the partner or agent the aforesaid person would have been liable under this subsection: Provided that nothing herein shall relieve the partner, agent, clerk or servant or the clerk or servant of that partner or agent from liability to prosecution. Public servants and public officers 22A. The Controller, every Deputy Controller, every Inspector and all members and officers of the Tribunal shall be deemed to be public servants 

Housing Development (Control and Licensing) 55 for the purposes of the Penal Code [Act 574], and to be public officers for the purposes of the Criminal Procedure Code or any other written law which the Minister may from time to time prescribe. Application of Public Authorities Protection Act 1948 22B. The Public Authorities Protection Act 1948 [ Act 198] shall apply to any action, suit, prosecution or proceedings against the Minister, Controller, any Deputy Controller, any Inspector, the Tribunal or any member or officer of the Tribunal in respect of any act, neglect or default done or committed by him in such capacity. Right to initiate and maintain actions 22C. Notwithstanding anything contained in any written law or any rule of law, agreement, assignment or charge lawfully entered into between a homebuyer as defined in section 16A and his financier, a homebuyer shall be entitled on his own volition and in his own name to initiate, commence, institute and maintain in any court or tribunal any action, suit or proceeding against a housing developer or any other p erson in respect of any matter arising out of the sale and purchase agreement entered into between the homebuyer and the housing developer provided the homebuyer’s financier under a deed of absolute assignment is notified in writing either before or within fourteen days after the action, suit or proceeding against the housing developer has been filed before any court or tribunal. Assignment 22D. (1) For the avoidance of any doubt, an absolute assignment in writing, under the hand of the assignor of the housing accommodation, not purporting to be by way of charge only, of the proprietary right or interest in the housing accommodation and the legal chose in action in the sale and purchase agreement in respect of a housing accommodation, of which express notice in writing has been given to the housing developer by the assignor in the manner set out in subsection (2) shall be deemed to have been effectual in law to pass and transfer the proprietary right, interest, chose in action and all legal and other remedies for the same to the assignee, from the date of the receipt of such notice by the housing 

56 Laws of Malaysia ACT 118 developer, and the concurrence of the housing developer shall not be required. (2) Subject to subsection (8), every notice of assignment given to the housing developer pursuant to subsection (1) shall be delivered by the assignor or his solicitors to the housing developer at or after the completion of the sale and purchase between the assignor and the new purchaser of the housing accommodation and shall be accompanied by— (a) duly stamped sale and purchase agreement between the assignor and the new purchaser of the housing accommodation, if any; (b) duly executed deed of absolute assignment between the assignor and the new purchaser of the housing accommodation together, if applicable, with a letter of undertaking from the new purchaser or the new purchaser’s financier, as the case may be, to deliver the duly stamped deed of absolute assignment within fourteen days after the same has been stamped; and (c) full payment of all sums and outgoings due to the housing developer under the sale and purchase agreement. (3) A housing developer shall keep and maintain an up-to-date, proper and accurate register of all purchasers of the housing accommodation until separate or strata titles for all the housing accommodation in the housing development have been issued by the appropriate authority and registered in the names of all the purchasers of the housing accommodation in that housing development. (4) The housing deve loper shall provide all necessary and accurate confirmation of the records in the register whenever requested by a purchaser of the housing accommodation or his solicitors or his financier or his financier’s solicitors subject to a payment of a fee not exc eeding fifty ringgit or such amount as may be prescribed from time to time for meeting every request for confirmation in respect of all of the following: (a) full particulars of the housing accommodation; (b) the postal address of the housing accommodation; 

Housing Development (Control and Licensing) 57 (c) the current purchaser of the housing accommodation; (d) the current chargee or assignee of the housing accommodation; (e) the total amount due to the developer under the sale and purchase agreement as at the date of the confirmation; and (f) such other matter as may be prescribed from time to time. (5) Any person who requires any consent from a housing developer to any absolute assignment or assignment by way of charge in contravention of subsection (2) shall be guilty of an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine which shall not be less than fifty thousand ringgit but which shall not exceed one hundred thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding three years or to both. (6) Any housing developer who— (a) requires any consent to any absolute assignment in contravention of subsection (1); (b) imposes any condition to any absolute assignment or assignment by way of charge including requiring the new purchaser to execute any additional agreement or make any other payment in contravention of this section; (c) fails to comply with subsection (3); or (d) fails or refuses to provide any confirmation in contravention of subsection (4) or imposes any condition or any other fee in respect of any matter arising from subsection (4), shall be guilty of an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine which shall not be less than fifty thousand ringgit but which shall not exceed one hundred thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding three years or to both. (7) For the purpose of this section, references to “new purchaser” wherever appearing shall include a purchaser’s financier or any beneficiary under the estate of a deceased purchaser or an assignee under an absolute assignment whether with or without consideration. 

58 Laws of Malaysia ACT 118 (8) The expression “completion of the sale and purchase” in subsection (2) in relation to a deed of absolute assignment executed in favour of a purchaser’s financier or any beneficiary under the estate of a deceased purchaser or an assignee under an absolute assignment whether with or without consideration not in pursuance of a sale and purchase agreement shall mean the date of that deed of absolute assignment in which case paragraph (2)(a) shall not apply. (9) This section shall apply to any housing accommo dation where separate or strata title for the housing accommodation has not been issued by the appropriate authority. Release of moneys by a stakeholder 22E. (1) Any stakeholder who releases any money to a housing developer or to any other person knowing that such an act is contrary to the provisions of the sale and purchase agreement shall be guilty of an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine which shall not be less than ten thousand ringgit but which shall not exceed one hundred thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding five years or to both. (2) Any person who knowingly and wilfully aids, abets, counsels, procures or commands the commission of an offence against subsection (1) shall be liable to be punished with the punishment provided for the offence. Progress certification 22F. (1) Any architect or engineer, as the case may be, who issues a progress certification knowing that the works therein referred to have not been completed in accordance with the provisions of the sale and purchase agreement shall be guilty of an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine which shall not be less than ten thousand ringgit but which shall not exceed one hundred thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding five years or to both. (2) Any person who knowingly and willfully aids, abets, counsels, procures or commands the commission of an offence under subsection (1) shall be liable to be punished with the punishment provided for the offence. 

Housing Development (Control and Licensing) 59 Prosecution 23. No prosecution for any offence under this Act shall be instituted save by or under the direction of or with the consent of the Public Prosecutor. Power to compound 23A. (1) The Controller may compound any offence against this Act or any regulations made under this Act which has been prescribed under paragraph 24(2)(i) to be a compoundable offence by collecting from the person reasonably suspected of having committed the offence a sum of money not exceeding the maximum fine prescribed for that offence. (2) Where an offence has been compounded under subsection (1), no prosecution shall thereafter be instituted in respect of the compounded offence. (3) Any moneys paid to the Controller under this section shall be paid into and form part of the Consolidated Fund. Powers to make regulations 24. (1) Subject to this section, the Minister may make regulations for the purpose of carrying into effect the provisions of this Act. (2) In particular and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power, the regulations may— (a) regulate the advertisements of a licensed housing developer; (b) regulate the use of names of housing estates developed by a licensed housing developer; (c) prescribe the form of contracts which shall be used by a licensed housing developer, his agent, nominee or purchaser both as a condition of the grant of a licence under this Act or otherwise; (d) regulate payments (under whatever name these may be described) which may be made by a purchaser either before, 

60 Laws of Malaysia ACT 118 during or after the construction or completion of the house, flat or other accommodation for which that purchaser is required to make the payments, including the amount of the payments, the time when the payments become due and conditions that shall be fulfilled by a licensed housing developer before he may ask for the payments; (e) regulate and prohibit the conditions and terms of any contract between a licensed housing developer, his agent or nominee and his purchaser; (f) prescribe the fees which are payable under this Act; (g) prescribe that any act or omission in contravention of any of the regulations shall be an offence and provide for the penalties therefor either by way of fine or imprisonment or both: provided that any fine so provided shall not exceed fifty thousand ringgit and a term of imprisonment so provided shall not exceed five years, and in addition thereto may also provide for the cancellation and suspension of a licence issued under this Act; (h) prescribe the moneys which shall be paid into or withdraw n from the Housing Development Account and the conditions for such withdrawals; (i) prescribe offences which may be compounded and the forms to be used in and the method and the procedure for compounding such offences; (ia) provide for an exemption from the operation of this Act of such housing developer or housing accommodation as the Minister deems expedient and prescribe the form, limitations, restrictions or conditions of such exemption; (j) provide for any matter which und er this Act is required or permitted to be prescribed or which is necessary or expedient to be prescribed to give effect to this Act. 

Housing Development (Control and Licensing) 61 (3) A copy of all regulations made under this section shall be published in the Gazette and laid before each House of Parliament as soon as possible after they have been made. SCHEDULE [Subsection 5(3)] (1) (2) (3) Applicant Documents to be submitted By whom document to be verified Person 1. A copy of the latest audited balance-sheet, if any, relating to all housing developments undertaken by that person That person himself Body of persons 1. A copy of an agreement between or amongst persons forming that body Any of the persons forming that body 2. A copy of the latest audited balance-sheet, if any, relating to all housing developments undertaken by that body of persons Company 1. A copy of memorandum of association A director, managing director, general manager, secretary or any senior officer of the company 2. A copy of articles of association 3. A copy of the latest audited balance-sheet Firm 1. A copy of the partnership agreement A partner 2. A copy of the latest audited balance-sheet Society 1. A copy of the rules or by- laws of the society President or secretary 2. A copy of the latest audited balance -sheet 

62 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 118 HOUSING DEVELOPMENT (CONTROL AND LICENSING) ACT 1966 LIST OF AMENDMENTS Amending law Short title In force from Ord. 41/1970 (P.U. (A) 259/70 Emergency (Essential Powers) Ordinance No.41. 1970 231970 Act A116 Housing Developers (Control and Licensing) (Amendment) Act 1972 041972 Act 160 Malaysian Currency (Ringgit) Act 1975 291975 Act A402 Housing Developers (Control and Licensing) (Amendment) Act 1977 101977 Act A703 Housing Developers (Control and Licensing) (Amendment) Act 1988 011988 Act A996 Interpretation (Amendment) Act 1997 241997 Act A1142 Housing Development (Control and Licensing) (Amendment) Act 2002 012002 Act A1289 Housing Development (Control and Licensing) (Amendment) Act 2007 122007 Act A1415 Housing Development (Control and Licensing) (Amendment) Act 2012 012015 

63 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 118 HOUSING DEVELOPMENT (CONTROL AND LICENSING) ACT 1966 LIST OF SECTIONS AMENDED Section Amending authority In force from Long title Act A996 241997 Act A1289 122007 Part I Act A1142 012002 1 Act A996 241997 Act A1142 012002 2 P.U. (A) 259/1970 231970 Act A116 041972 Act A1142 012002 Act A1289 122007 3 P.U.(A) 259/1970 231970 Act A116 041972 Act A703 011988 Act A1142 012002 Act A1289 122007 Act A1415 012015 3A Act A1289 122007 4 Act A1142 012002 Part II Act A1142 012002 5 Act A703 011988 Act A1142 012002 6 P.U. (A) 259/1970 231970 Act A116 041972 Act 160 291975 Act A1142 012002 Act A1415 012015 

64 Laws of Malaysia ACT 118 Section Amending authority In force from 6A Act A1142 012002 6B Act A996 241997 Act A1142 012002 Part III Act A1142 012002 7 Act A996 241997 Act A1142 012002 Act A1289 122007 7A Act A703 011988 Act A1142 012002 Act A1289 122007 7B Act A1142 012002 Act A1415 012015 77C Act A1289 122007 8 Act A1142 012002 8A Act A1142 012002 Act A1289 122007 Act A1415 012015 9 P.U. (A) 259/1970 231970 Act A116 041972 Part IV Act A1142 012002 10 Act A703 011988 Act A1142 012002 10A-10J Act A1142 012002 10K Act A1289 122007 Part V Act A1142 012002 11 Act A1142 012002 13 Act A996 271997 Act A1289 122007 13A-13B Act A1142 012002 16 P.U. (A) 259/1970 231970 Act A116 041972 

Housing Development (Control and Licensing) 65 Section Amending authority In force from 16A-16Z Act A1142 012002 16C Act A1289 122007 16E Act A1289 122007 16N Act A1415 012015 16M-16P Act A1289 122007 16Y Act A1289 122007 16Q Act A1415 012015 16AA-16AI Act A1142 012002 16AD Act A1415 012015 16AC Act A1289 122007 16AD Act A1289 Act A1415 122007 012015 Part VII Act A1142 012002 18 Act A703 011988 Act A1142 012002 Act A1289 122007 18A Act A1415 012015 19 Act A402 101977 Act A703 011988 Act A1142 012002 Act A1289 122007 20 Act A1142 012002 Act A1289 122007 21 Act A703 011988 Act A1142 012002 Act A1289 122007 22 Act 160 291975 Act A1142 012002 Act A1289 122007 22A-22C Act A1142 012002 22C-22F Act A1289 122007 23 Act A703 011988 

66 Laws of Malaysia ACT 118 Section Amending authority In force from 24 Act A703 011988 Act A1142 012002 Act A1289 Act A1415 122007 012015 29 Act A1289 122007