LAWS OF MALAYSIA ONLINE VERSION OF UPDATED TEXT OF REPRINT Act 716 WILDLIFE CONSERVATION ACT 2010 As at 1 October 2014 

2 WILDLIFE CONSERVATION ACT 2010 Date of Royal Assent … … 21 October 2010 Date of publication in the Gazette … … … 4 November 2010 Latest amendment made by P.U.(A)108/2014 which came into operation on ... ... ... ... … … … … 18 April 2014 

3 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 716 WILDLIFE CONSERVATION ACT 2010 ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS PART I PRELIMINARY Section 1. Short title and commencement 2. Application 3. Interpretation PART II APPOINTMENT OF OFFICERS, ETC. 4. Appointment of officers, etc. 5. Delegation of powers 6. Power of Minister to give directions 7. Power of the Director General to issue orders 8. Carrying and use of arms PART III LICENSING PROVISIONS Chapter 1 Requirement for licence, etc. 9. Requirement for licence 

4 Laws of Malaysia ACT 716 Section 10. Requirement for permit 11. Requirement for special permit Chapter 2 Application for licence, etc. 12. Application for licence, etc. 13. Additional information or document 14. Grant of licence, etc. 15. Power to impose additional conditions and to vary or revoke conditions 16. Validity of licence, etc. 17. Carrying or displaying licence, etc. 18. Change of particulars 19. Loss of licence, etc. 20. Replacement of licence, etc. 21. Assignment of licence, etc. 22. Return of licence, etc., upon expiry 23. Suspension or revocation of licence, etc. 24. Licence, etc., to be void 25. Appeals Chapter 3 Miscellaneous 26. Hunting by means of shooting 27. No licence during close season 28. Prerequisites to operate zoo, etc. 29. Prohibition of possessing, etc., snares 30. Offspring of totally protected wildlife be deemed protected wildlife 31. Barred from holding licence, etc. 32. Limitation on granting licence or permit 

 Wildlife Conservation 5 Section 33. Registers 34. Power of Director General to prescribe rules 35. Power of Director General to prescribe conditions PART IV DUTIES AND OBLIGATIONS OF LICENSED HUNTER, ETC. 36. Licensed hunter to record certain particulars 37. Licensed dealer to keep record 38. Licensed taxidermist to keep record 39. Receipt of wildlife to be prepared, etc., by licensed taxidermist 40. Sale of protected wildlife by licensed hunter 41. Sale of birds’ nest by birds’ nest collector 42. Purchase of protected wildlife by licensed dealer or licensed taxidermist 43. Period during which wildlife may be sold by licensed dealer 44. Issue of receipt 45. Wildlife tagging 46. Keeping wildlife at other premises PART V WILDLIFE RESERVES AND WILDLIFE SANCTUARIES 47. Declaration of wildlife reserves and wildlife sanctuaries 48. Permits to enter wildlife reserves and wildlife sanctuaries 49. Prohibition of certain acts in wildlife reserves and wildlife sanctuaries PART VI GENERAL EXCEPTIONS AND PRESUMPTIONS 50. Hunting, etc., for the purpose of conservation 

6 Laws of Malaysia ACT 716 Section 51. Aborigine may hunt certain wildlife 52. Officers may hunt wildlife 53. Owner or occupier of land may use birdlime to destroy grain-eating birds 54. Capturing or killing of wildlife for protection of crops 55. Wildlife which is an immediate danger to human life may be killed 56. Presumption of attempting to hunt if decoy is used 57. Presumption of using snare 58. Presumption against occupier 59. Presumptive evidence PART VII OFFENCES AND PENALTIES Chapter 1 Offences relating to licence 60. Hunting, etc., protected wildlife without licence 61. Hunting, etc., immature protected wildlife without licence 62. Hunting, etc., female of protected wildlife without licence 63. Carrying out business of dealing, etc., without licence 64. Collecting birds’ nests without licence 65. Importing, etc., protected wildlife without licence Chapter 2 Offences relating to permit 66. Operating zoo, etc., without permit 67. Carrying out research or study without permit Chapter 3 Offences relating to special permit 68. Hunting, etc., totally protected wildlife without special permit 69. Hunting, etc., immature totally protected wildlife without special permit 

 Wildlife Conservation 7 Section 70. Hunting, etc., female of totally protected wildlife without special permit 71. Importing, etc., totally protected wildlife without special permit 72. Using, etc., totally protected wildlife without special permit 73. Carrying out research or study without special permit Chapter 4 Miscellaneous 74. Damaging, etc., nest or egg of protected wildlife 75. Damaging, etc., nest or egg of totally protected wildlife 76. Hunting, etc., wildlife in wildlife reserve or wildlife sanctuary 77. Hunting wildlife during prohibited hours 78. Hunting protected wildlife during close season 79. Hunting wildlife with poison, etc. 80. Hunting wildlife with arms or traps other than prescribed 81. Hunting, etc., wildlife within four hundred metres of salt lick 82. Hunting wildlife from conveyance 83. Possession of licence, etc., bearing other’s name 84. Licence, etc., kept at different address 85. Disturbing salt lick or its vicinity 86. Cruelty to wildlife 87. Things containing derivative of totally protected wildlife 88. Provocation of wildlife PART VIII POWERS RELATING TO ENFORCEMENT 89. Offences under Act to be seizable offences 90. Authorization of public officer 91. Authority card 92. Power of investigation 93. Power of arrest 

8 Laws of Malaysia ACT 716 Section 94. Search and seizure with warrant 95. Search and seizure without warrant 96. Search of person 97. Power to enter land 98. Power to enter premises 99. Access to computerized data 100. Setting up, etc., obstruction on road, etc. 101. Power to stop, search and seize conveyance 102. Warrant admissible notwithstanding defects 103. List of things seized 104. Temporary return of conveyance 105. Disposal of seized wildlife 106. Power to require attendance of person acquainted with case 107. Examination of persons acquainted with case 108. Admissibility of statements in evidence 109. Release of things seized 110. Forfeiture of wildlife, etc., seized 111. Property in forfeited wildlife, etc. 112. Cost of holding wildlife, etc., seized 113. No costs or damages arising from seizure to be recoverable 114. Obstruction to search 115. Additional powers 116. Joinder of offences PART IX GENERAL 117. Controlled species 118. Hybrid deemed a controlled species 119. Prohibition on hybridization activity 120. Purchase of protected wildlife, etc., by pers ons other than licensed dealer, etc. 

 Wildlife Conservation 9 Section 121. Sale of wildlife unlawfully hunted 122. Report on dangerous wildlife to be made 123. Report made to public officer to be conveyed to officer 124. Offence committed by body corporate 125. General offence 126. Compounding of offences 127. Institution of prosecution 128. Protection against suit and legal proceedings 129. Public Authorities Protection Act 1948 130. Protection of informers 131. Rewards 132. Regulations 133. Power of the Minister to exempt 134. Power to amend Schedules 135. Repeal and saving provisions 136. Transitional provision FIRST SCHEDULE SECOND SCHEDULE THIRD SCHEDULE FOURTH SCHEDULE FIFTH SCHEDULE SIXTH SCHEDULE SEVENTH SCHEDULE 

 

11 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 716 WILDLIFE CONSERVATION ACT 2010 An Act to provide for the protection and conservation of wildlife and for matters connected therewith. ENACTED by the Parliament of Malaysia as follows: [28 December 2010, P.U.(B) 542/2010] PART I PRELIMINARY Short title and commencement 1. (1) This Act may be cited as the Wildlife Conservation Act 2010 . (2) This Act comes into operation on a date to be appointed by the Minister by notification in the Gazette. Application 2. (1) This Act applies to Peninsular Malaysia and the Federal Territory of Labuan. (2) This Act does not apply to any wildlife falling within List II of the Ninth Schedule of the Federal Constitution and the Fisheries Act 1985 [Act 317]. 

12 Laws of Malaysia ACT 716 Interpretation 3. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires — ―licensed taxidermist‖ means a person who is granted a licence to carry on taxidermy business under this Act; ―part or derivative‖ means any substantially complete or p art or derivative of wildlife, in natural form, stuffed, chilled, preserved, dried, processed or otherwise treated or prepared which may or may not be contained in preparations, and includes — (a) meat, bones, hide, skin, leather, tusk, horn, antler, gland, feathers, hair, teeth, claws, shell, scales, nest and eggs; (b) tissue, blood, fat, oil, milk, venom, saliva, urine and faeces; (c) any compound derived from anything mentioned in paragraph (a) or (b); or (d) any thing which is claimed by any person, or which appears from an accompanying document, the packaging, a label or mark or from any other circumstances, to contain a part or derivative of wildlife; ―immediate danger to human life‖ means a danger in which there is reason to believe that if any wildlife is no t captured or killed, it may cause loss of human life; ―export‖ means to take or cause to be taken out of Malaysia by land, sea or air, any wildlife or any part or derivative of wildlife; ―re-export‖ means the export of any wildlife or any part or derivative of any wildlife which has been previously imported; ―hybrid‖ means the result of cross-breeding of— (a) any wildlife with any other animal; or 

 Wildlife Conservation 13 (b) any wildlife with other species of wildlife; ―wildlife‖ means any species of wild animal or wild bird ,whether totally protected or protected, vertebrate or invertebrate,live or dead, mature or immature and whether or not may be tamed or bred in captivity; ―protected wildlife‖ means any wildlife specified in the First Schedule; ―totally protected wil dlife‖ means any wildlife specified in the Second Schedule; ―immature wildlife‖ means any wildlife which does not satisfy the standard of maturity specified in the Third Schedule; ―permanent reserved forest‖ has the meaning assigned to it in the National Forestry Act 1984 [Act 313]; ―import‖ means to bring in or cause to be brought into Malaysia by land, sea or air, any wildlife or any part or derivative of any wildlife; ―salt lick‖ includes any mineral spring or ground containing or bearing sal t or any other mineral, the consumption of which is conducive to the health or well being of wildlife; ―snare‖ means a snare as specified in the Seventh Schedule; ―wildlife sanctuary‖ means an area declared under Part V as a wildlife sanctuary; ―Director General‖ means the Director General for Wildlife and National Parks; ―licence‖ means a licence granted under this Act; ―hunting‖ includes pursuing, trapping, capturing, taking or killing any wildlife by any prescribed means, whether or not the wildlife is then or subsequently taken, trapped, captured or killed; 

14 Laws of Malaysia ACT 716 ―Minister‖ means the Minister charged with the responsibility for the protection of wildlife; ―open season‖ means a period during which a protected wildlife may be hunted as prescribed under this Act; ―aborigine‖ has the meaning assigned to it in the Aboriginal Peoples Act 1954 [Act 134]; ―officer‖ means an officer appointed under subsection 4(1); ―licensing officer‖— (a) in relation to a licence, means a Director, a Deputy Director or an Assistant Director; and (b) in relation to a permit or special permit, means the Director General; ―enforcement officer‖ means– (a) any officer; (b) any police officer not below the rank of Inspector as provided for in the Police Act 1967 [Act 344]; (c) any proper officer of customs as defined in section 2 of the Customs Act 1967 [Act 235]; and (d) any public officer authorized under section 90; ―commercial captive breeding‖ means breeding of wildlife in a controlled environment of parents that mated or otherwise transmitted their gametes in a controlled environment for commercial purposes; ―licensed hunter‖ means a person who is granted a licence to hunt any protected wildlife under this Act; ―birds’ nest collector‖ means a person who is granted a lice nce to collect birds’ nest under this Act; 

 Wildlife Conservation 15 ―conveyance‖ means any vehicle, vessel, ship, aircraft and any other mode of transport whether by air, sea or land; ―Director‖ means the Director for Wildlife and National Parks; ―licensed dealer‖ means a pers on who is granted a licence to carry on the business of dealing under this Act; ―Assistant Director‖ means an Assistant Director for Wildlife and National Parks; ―permit‖ means a permit granted under this Act; ―special permit‖ means a special permit granted under this Act; ―taxidermy business‖ means a business involving the carrying out of the following activities: (a) preparing, preserving, stuffing or mounting any wildlife or any part or derivative of any wildlife; or (b) manufacturing or creating an art icle or thing from any wildlife or any part or derivative of any wildlife; ―controlled environment‖ includes an environment that is manipulated for the purpose of producing specimen of a particular species of wildlife that has boundaries designed to prev ent the wildlife, eggs or gametes of the wildlife from entering or leaving that particular environment, and the general characteristics of which may include but are not limited to artificial housing, waste removal, health care, protection from predators, and artificially supplied food; ―premises‖ includes any house, building, hut, shed, structure, platform and land whether or not enclosed or built upon; ―poison‖ means any of the substances which are poisonous to any wildlife as specified in the Fourth Sch edule or any other substances which are certified by a Government chemist to be poisonous to any wildlife; 

16 Laws of Malaysia ACT 716 ―Ranger‖ means a Ranger for Wildlife and National Parks; ―wildlife reserve‖ means an area declared under Part V as a wildlife reserve; ―nest‖ means any abode, den or any other structure which is being constructed or is being used by any wildlife for— (a) procreation; (b) the laying of eggs; (c) the incubation of eggs; (d) the protection of eggs or immature offspring; or (e) the nurture of immature offspring; ―arms‖ has the meaning assigned to it in the Arms Act 1960 [Act 206]; ―controlled species‖ means any species specified in the Fifth Schedule which poses a risk to the health or safety of any person or poses a risk to property, wildlife or wildlife habitat; ―State land‖ means a State land within the meaning of the National Land Code [Act 56/1965]; ―Deputy Director General‖ means a Deputy Director General for Wildlife and National Parks; ―Deputy Director‖ means a Deputy Director for Wi ldlife and National Parks; ―bait‖ includes any sound equipment or audio-visual device, lamp, salt or sulphur used for the purpose of trapping any wildlife; ―poisoned bait‖ means any bait attractive to any wildlife which is coated with, immersed in, pow dered with or otherwise impregnated with, poison; 

 Wildlife Conservation 17 ―business of dealing‖ means a business involving the carrying out of the following activities: (a) selling any protected wildlife or any part or derivative of any protected wildlife as food or for medicinal purposes; (b) selling or purchasing for resale any part or derivative of any protected wildlife; or (c) housing, confining or breeding any wildlife for sale. PART II APPOINTMENT OF OFFICERS, ETC. Appointment of officers, etc. 4. (1) There shall be appointed a Director General, such number of Deputies Director General, Directors, Deputy Directors, Assistant Directors and Rangers as may be necessary for the purpose of this Act. (2) The Director General shall have general control of officers appointed under this section. (3) Every appointment under this section shall be published in the Gazette. (4) All officers appointed under this section shall be deemed to be public servants within the meaning of the Penal Code [Act 574]. (5) The Director General and Depu ties Director General shall have all the powers and discretions vested in the Director by this Act. 

18 Laws of Malaysia ACT 716 Delegation of powers 5. (1) The Director General may, in writing, delegate any of the powers or duties assigned to him under this Act to any officer, subject to such terms and conditions as he thinks fit. (2) A delegation under this section shall not preclude the Director General himself from performing or exercising at any time any of the powers or duties so delegated. Power of Minister to give directions 6. The Minister may give general directions to the Director General consistent with this Act as to the exercise of the powers conferred on, or the duties to be discharged by, the Director General or any other officer. Power of the Director General to issue orders 7. The Director General may issue administrative orders, consistent with the provisions of this Act, in respect of the general control, training, duties and responsibilities of officers and for such other matters as may be necessary or expedient for the purpose of carrying out the provisions of this Act. Carrying and use of arms 8. Subject to the administrative orders of the Director General, an officer may carry and use arms in the exercise of the powers and duties under this Act. 

 Wildlife Conservation 19 PART III LICENSING PROVISIONS Chapter 1 Requirement for licence, etc. Requirement for licence 9. (1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, no person shall — (a) hunt or keep any protected wildlife; (b) take or keep any part or derivative of any protected wildlife; (c) collect birds’ nests; (d) carry on the business of dealing; (e) carry on the taxidermy business; (f) import, export or re -export any protected wildlife or any part or derivative of any protected wildlife, unless he holds a licence granted under this Act. (2) For the purpose of paragraph (1) (d), a separate licence is required for each activity of dealing. (3) A person who intends to carry on the business of dealing or taxidermy business at more than one place of business shal l apply for a separate licence for each of the place of business. Requirement for permit 10. (1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, no person shall— (a) operate a zoo; (b) operate a commercial captive breeding; 

20 Laws of Malaysia ACT 716 (c) operate a circus or wildlife exhibition; (d) carry out research or study on any protected wildlife, unless he holds a permit granted under this Act. (2) Where the zoo, commercial captive breeding, circus or wildlife exhibition operation involves any totally protected wildlife, the person shall obta in a special permit pursuant to section 11 in respect of the totally protected wildlife. Requirement for special permit 11. Subject to the provisions of this Act, no person shall — (a) hunt or keep any totally protected wildlife or take or keep any part or derivative of any totally protected wildlife; (b) import, export or re -export any totally protected wildlife or any part or derivative of any totally protected wildlife; (c) hunt any protected wildlife during the close season; (d) carry on research or study on any totally protected wildlife; (e) use any totally protected wildlife for his zoo, circus or wildlife exhibition operation or commercial captive breeding, unless he holds a special permit granted under this Act. 

 Wildlife Conservation 21 Chapter 2 Application for licence, etc. Application for licence, etc. 12. (1) A person may apply for a licence or permit to be granted to him by submitting to the licensing officer an application in such form and manner as determined by the Director General. (2) A person may apply for a spec ial permit to be granted to him by submitting a written application to the licensing officer stating the grounds for making the application. (3) An application under this section may be withdrawn at any time before it is approved or refused. Additional information or document 13. (1) The licensing officer may, at any time after the receipt of an application under section 12, request the applicant to give to the licensing officer, within the period specified in the request, additional information or document on the application. (2) If the additional information or document required under subsection (1) is not provided by the applicant within the period specified in the request or any extension of time granted by the licensing officer, the application s hall be deemed to be withdrawn and shall not be further proceeded with, but without affecting the right of the applicant to make a fresh application. Grant of licence, etc. 14. (1) The licensing officer may, after considering the application made under section 12, approve or refuse the application. 

22 Laws of Malaysia ACT 716 (2) In the case of an application for a special permit, the licensing officer may approve the application only after obtaining the approval of the Minister. (3) Where an application for a licence, permit o r special permit is approved, the licence, permit or special permit shall be granted upon payment of the prescribed fee. (4) A licence, permit or special permit may be granted subject to such conditions or restrictions as the licensing officer thinks fit to impose. (5) The decision of the licensing officer to grant or not to grant a licence, permit or special permit shall be communicated to the applicant by notice in writing as soon as practicable. Power to impose additional conditions and to vary or revoke conditions 15. (1) The licensing officer may at any time— (a) impose any additional conditions on the licence, permit or special permit; or (b) vary or revoke any conditions imposed on the licence, permit or special permit. (2) Where the licensing offic er intends to take action under subsection (1), he shall give the holder of a licence, permit or special permit a written notice of his intention to do so and an opportunity to make written representations within the period specified in the written notice. (3) After the expiry of the period specified in the notice, and after considering any representation made by the holder of a licence, permit or special permit, the licensing officer shall decide whether to impose, vary or revoke any condition under subsection (1). 

 Wildlife Conservation 23 (4) The licensing officer shall give the holder of a licence, permit or special permit a written notice of his decision under subsection (3) as soon as practicable and the decision shall take effect on a date to be specified in the written notice. Validity of licence, etc. 16. A licence, permit or special permit, unless sooner suspended or revoked, shall be valid for such period as may be specified in the licence, permit or special permit. Carrying or displaying licence, etc. 17. (1) A holder of a licence, permit or special permit shall, as the case may be— (a) carry the licence or special permit while hunting any wildlife or taking any part or derivative of any wildlife; (b) display the licence at a conspicuous place at his place of business, if he is a licensed dealer or licensed taxidermist; or (c) on demand by an officer, produce the licence, permit or special permit for inspection. (2) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine n ot exceeding ten thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding six months or to both. Change of particulars 18. A holder of a licence, permit or special permit shall, when there is any change of any particulars recorded in his licence, pe rmit or special permit, immediately inform the licensing officer of such change. 

24 Laws of Malaysia ACT 716 Loss of licence, etc. 19. Where a licence, permit or special permit is lost, the holder of the licence, permit or special permit shall— (a) immediately lodge a police report of the loss; (b) immediately inform the licensing officer of the loss; and (c) stop any activity authorized under the licence, permit or special permit until he obtains a copy of the licence, permit or special permit under section 20. Replacementof licence, etc. 20. (1) Where a licence, permit or special permit is lost, defaced or damaged, the holder of the licence, permit or special permit may apply for a copy of the licence, permit or special permit from the licensing officer and the application shall be accomp anied with a prescribed fee and— (a) in the case of a lost licence, permit or special permit, a copy of the police report pertaining to the loss; or (b) in the case of a defaced or damaged licence, permit or special permit, the original licence, permit or specia l permit. (2) The licensing officer may approve or refuse the application under subsection (1). (3) Where the licensing officer approves the application, he shall issue a copy of the licence, permit or special permit with the word ―DUPLICATE‖ endorsed on the copy of the licence, permit or special permit. 

 Wildlife Conservation 25 Assignment of licence, etc. 21. (1) A holder of a licence, permit or special permit shall not assign any right, duty, liability or obligation under his licence, permit or special permit to any other person. (2) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding ten thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding six months or to both. Return of licence, etc., upon expiry 22. (1) A holder of a licence, permit or special permit shall return his licence, permit or special permit to the licensing officer within fourteen days after the date of its expiry. (2) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding ten thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding six months or to both. Suspension or revocation of licence, etc. 23. (1) Subject to subsection (2), a licensing officer may suspend or revoke a licence, permit or special permit if he is satisfied that— (a) the holder of the licence, permit or special permit has breached any conditions specified in the licence, permit or special permit; (b) the holder of the licence, permit or special p ermit has failed to comply with any provisions of this Act or any of its subsidiary legislation; (c) the holder of the licence, permit or special permit has been convicted of an offence under this Act or any of its subsidiary legislation; or 

26 Laws of Malaysia ACT 716 (d) the granting of t he licence, permit or special permit was induced by a false representation of fact by or on behalf of the holder of licence, permit or special permit. (2) The licensing officer shall not suspend or revoke the licence, permit or special permit unless the licensing officer is satisfied, after giving the holder of the licence, permit or special permit an opportunity of making any representation in writing he may wish to make, that the licence, permit or special permit should be suspended or revoked. (3) Where a licence, permit or special permit is suspended or revoked, it shall have no effect during the period of suspension or from the date of revocation, as the case may be. (4) Where a licence, permit or special permit is revoked under subsection (1), the holder of the licence, permit or special permit shall immediately surrender the licence, permit or special permit to the licensing officer. (5) The decision of the licensing officer to suspend or revoke a licence, permit or special permit or not to sus pend or revoke a licence, permit or special permit shall be communicated to the holder of the licence, permit or special permit by notice in writing as soon as practicable. Licence, etc., to be void 24. Any licence, permit or special permit granted in c ontravention of the provisions of this Act shall be void. Appeals 25. (1) A person who is aggrieved— (a) by the refusal of the licensing officer to grant a licence, permit or special permit; or 

 Wildlife Conservation 27 (b) by the suspension or revocation of his licence, permit or special permit, may, within thirty days after being informed in writing of the refusal, suspension or revocation, appeal in writing against such decision to the Minister. (2) The Minister may, after considering an appeal made under subsection (1), confirm or set aside the decision appealed against, and the decision of the Minister shall be final. Chapter 3 Miscellaneous Hunting by means of shooting 26. A licence or special permit to hunt any wildlife by means of shooting shall only be granted if the pe rson applying for the licence or special permit holds an arms licence issued under the Arms Act 1960 and the arms licence is produced when applying for the licence or special permit. No licence during close season 27. Save as provided in section 11, no licence shall be granted to hunt any protected wildlife during close season. Prerequisites to operate zoo, etc. 28. The licensing officer shall not grant a permit to operate a zoo, commercial captive breeding, circus or wildlife exhibition, unles s he is satisfied that— (a) the establishment or continuity of the establishment of the zoo, commercial captive breeding, circus or wildlife 

28 Laws of Malaysia ACT 716 exhibition will not bring ill effects to the health or safety of any person or community in the surrounding area; (b) there is prepared an emergency plan relating to plague, natural disaster and accidental release of any wildlife; and (c) the person has never been previously convicted of an offence under this Act or any of its subsidiary legislation or any other written law related to cruelty to animals. Prohibition of possessing, etc., snares 29. (1) No person shall— (a) possess or keep any snare; or (b) set, place or use any snare for the purpose of hunting any wildlife. (2) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) commits an offence and shall, on conviction— (a) in relation to an offence under paragraph (a), be liable to a fine not exceeding one hundred thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding three years or to both; and (b) in relation to an offence under paragraph (b), be liable to a fine of not less than fifty thousand ringgit and not more than one hundred thousand ringgit and to imprisonment for a term not exceeding two years. Offspring of totally protected wildlife be deemed protected wildlife 30. An o ffspring of a totally protected wildlife which is bred in captivity for commercial purposes shall be deemed a protected 

 Wildlife Conservation 29 wildlife and shall be subject to a licence or permit, as the case may be. Barred from holding licence, etc. 31. Where a person has be en convicted of an offence under this Act or any of its subsidiary legislation, he may be barred from holding any licence, permit or special permit for a period not exceeding five years commencing on the date when the proceedings in respect of the conviction is finally concluded. Limitation on granting licence or permit 32. (1) The licensing officer may grant licences or permits according to the prescribed quota. (2) Notwithstanding subsection (1), the licensing officer with the approval of the Ministe r may, from time to time, grant licences or permits in addition to the prescribed quota. Registers 33. The Director General shall keep and maintain registers of licences, permits and special permits granted under this Act. Power of Director General to prescribe rules 34. The Director General may, by rules published in the Gazette, prescribe the methods and means of disposal, disease control or quarantine of, any wildlife, to be complied with by an operator of a zoo, commercial captive breeding, circus or wildlife exhibition. 

30 Laws of Malaysia ACT 716 Power of Director General to prescribe conditions 35. The Director General may, with the approval of the Minister, by order published in the Gazette, prescribe conditions with respect to the granting of licences, permits and special permits and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing may in particular prescribe— (a) the open season and close season in respect of protected wildlife; (b) the number of— (i) wildlife which may be hunted; and (ii) part or derivative of wildlife which may be taken; (c) the methods or means by which any wildlife may be hunted, including the type of arm or trap to be used; (d) the times during which, and the places where, any wildlife may be hunted, or the nest or egg of any wildlife may be taken; (e) the quota of licences and permits to be granted for— (i) each of the activities specified under sections 9 and 10; (ii) each year or open season; and (iii) each State, in respect of each protected wildlife or any part or derivative of wildlife; and (f) the standard of maturity of wildlife which may be hunted. 

 Wildlife Conservation 31 PART IV DUTIES AND OBLIGATIONS OF LICENSED HUNTER, ETC. Licensed hunter to record certain particulars 36. (1) A licensed hunter who hunts any protected wildlife or a holder of a special permit who hunts any totally protected wildlife, where applicable, shall record in the appropriate space provided in the licence or special permit— (a) the number, sex and species of the wildlife which was hunted; (b) the date on which, and the locality in which, the wildlife was hunted; (c) the methods or means by which the wildlife was hunted; and (d) the methods and date of disposal, including the licence, permit or special permit number of the purchaser should the wildlife be sold. (2) Any licensed hunter who contravenes subsecti on (1) commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding ten thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding six months or to both. Licensed dealer to keep record 37. (1) A licensed dealer shall keep and maintai n a record consisting of the following particulars: (a) the number and species of wildlife (live or dead), the number of parts or derivatives of wildlife and the number of articles manufactured from any wildlife or part or derivative of any wildlife, which were purchased, acquired or sold; 

32 Laws of Malaysia ACT 716 (b) the name, address and licence number, of the person from whom the wildlife, parts or derivatives of wildlife or articles were purchased or acquired; (c) the name, address and licence number, if any, of the person to whom the w ildlife, parts or derivatives of wildlife or articles were sold; (d) the receipt number issued for any sale or purchase; and (e) the date of any purchase, acquisition or sale. (2) Any licensed dealer who contravenes subsection (1) commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding ten thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding six months or to both. Licensed taxidermist to keep record 38. (1) A licensed taxidermist shall keep and maintain a record consisting of the following particulars: (a) the date, time and person from whom the wildlife or part or derivative of the wildlife was received; (b) the name, address and licence number of the owner of the wildlife or part or derivative of the wildlife; and (c) the date and time the wildlife or part or derivative of wildlife is returned to the owner. (2) Any licensed taxidermist who contravenes subsection (1) commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding ten thousand ringgit or to impris onment for a term not exceeding six months or to both. 

 Wildlife Conservation 33 Receipt of wildlife to be prepared, etc., by licenced taxidermist 39. (1) A licensed taxidermist shall not receive any wildlife or any part or derivative of any wildlife to be prepared, preserved, stuffed or mounted unless the person delivering the wildlife or part or derivative of the wildlife furnishes proof to the licensed taxidermist that the wildlife or part or derivative of the wildlife was lawfully taken or acquired pursuant to this Act or any of its subsidiary legislation. (2) Any licensed taxidermist who contravenes subsection (1) commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding than ten thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding six months or to both. Sale of protected wildlife by licensed hunter 40. (1) A licensed hunter shall sell protected wildlife hunted or taken by him only to a licensed dealer or licensed taxidermist. (2) Any licensed hunter who contravenes subsection (1) commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding twenty thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding one year or to both. Sale of birds’ nest by birds’ nest collector 41. (1) A birds’ nest collector shall sell birds ’ nest collected by him only to a licensed dealer or licensed taxidermist. (2) Any birds’ nest collector who contravenes subsection (1) commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding twenty thousand ringgit or to imprisonm ent for a term not exceeding one year or to both. 

34 Laws of Malaysia ACT 716 Purchase of protected wildlife by licensed dealer or licensed taxidermist 42. (1) A licensed dealer or licensed taxidermist shall purchase or acquire protected wildlife or any part or derivative of pro tected wildlife only from a licensed hunter, licensed dealer, licensed taxidermist, or the Director where it is sold by the Director pursuant to this Act. (2) Any licensed dealer or licensed taxidermist who contravenes subsection (1) commits an offence a nd shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding twenty thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding one year or to both. Period during which wildlife may be sold by licensed dealer 43. (1) A licensed dealer may sell any protec ted wildlife during open season until the first thirty days of the close season and shall not henceforth sell the protected wildlife unless an open season is subsequently declared for the protected wildlife. (2) Any licensed dealer who contravenes subsec tion (1) commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding twenty thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding one year or to both. Issue of receipt 44. (1) A licensed dealer, licensed taxidermist and birds’ nest collector shall, at the time of each sale, issue a receipt of sale to the purchaser. (2) Any licensed dealer, licensed taxidermist or birds’ nest collector who contravenes subsection (1) commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fi ne not exceeding ten thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding six months or to both. 

 Wildlife Conservation 35 Wildlife tagging 45. (1) A holder of a licence, permit or special permit who keeps, sells, imports, exports, re -export or breeds any wildlife, as the case may be, shall tag or label such wildlife in the following manner: (a) implantation of a scannable device in the wildlife; (b) placement of a band on any part of the wildlife; (c) placement, whether by piercing or otherwise, of a tattoo or ring on any part of the wildlife; or (d) labelling or marking of a container in which the wildlife is kept. (2) The tagging or labelling referred to in paragraphs (1) (a) to (c) shall only be performed by a person who is registered with the Director General to do so. (3) Any person who contravenes this section commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding twenty thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding one year or to both. Keeping wildlife at other premises 46. (1) A holder of a licence, permit or special permit who intends to keep his wildlife at any premises other than the premises specified in his licence, permit or special permit shall first obtain an approval from the licensing officer. (2) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding twenty thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding one year or to both. 

36 Laws of Malaysia ACT 716 PART V WILDLIFE RESERVES AND WILDLIFE SANCTUARIES Declaration of wildlife reserves and wildlife sanctuaries 47. The State Authority may, after consultation with the Minister, from time to time by notification in the Gazette— (a) declare any State land to be a wildlife reserve or a wildlife sanctuary and designat e the officer for the time being having the control of such reserve or sanctuary; (b) define and alter the boundaries of the wildlife reserve or the wildlife sanctuary; (c) in the case of a wildlife reserve, specify certain animals and birds (which are not wildl ife according to this Act) as totally protected wildlife or protected wildlife (as the case may require) which shall be in addition to the lists of any wildlife specified in the Schedules to this Act. Permits to enter wildlife reserves and wildlife sanctuaries 48. (1) No person shall enter a wildlife reserve or a wildlife sanctuary unless he first obtains a written permit from the Director authorizing him to do so. (2) No person shall be granted a written permit authorizing him to enter a wildlife rese rve or a wildlife sanctuary unless he satisfies the Director by way of a written application that he intends to enter the wildlife reserve or wildlife sanctuary for the purposes of art, science or recreation. (3) A written permit granted under this Part shall specify the period during which the holder of the permit is authorized to enter the wildlife reserve or the wildlife sanctuary, which period shall not exceed one month but may be renewed for periods of up to one month at a time. 

 Wildlife Conservation 37 (4) Where a person p ermitted to enter a wildlife reserve or a wildlife sanctuary enters the wildlife reserve or the wildlife sanctuary, he may be required to be accompanied by a Director or by any other officer. Prohibition of certain acts in wildlife reserves and wildlife sanctuaries 49. No person shall— (a) in a wildlife reserve, disturb, cut, remove or take any soil, timber or vegetation; (b) in a wildlife sanctuary— (i) hunt any animal or bird; (ii) take, disturb, damage or destroy the nest or egg of any animal or bird; or (iii) disturb, cut, remove or take any soil, timber or vegetation. PART VI GENERAL EXCEPTIONS AND PRESUMPTIONS Hunting, etc., for the purpose of conservation 50. (1) Notwithstanding anything in this Act, for the purpose of carrying any conservation activity, the Dire ctor General or any officer authorized by him may breed, keep, hunt, import, export, sell or purchase any wildlife. (2) ―A conservation activity‖ means an activity that relates to the protection, management and sustainable use of wildlife. 

38 Laws of Malaysia ACT 716 Aborigine may hunt certain wildlife 51. (1) Notwithstanding anything in this Act, an aborigine may hunt any protected wildlife as specified in the Sixth Schedule for his sustenance or the sustenance of his family members. (2) Any protected wildlife hunted under subsection (1) shall not be sold or exchanged for food, monetary gains or any other thing. (3) Any aborigine who contravenes this section commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding ten thousand ringgit or to imprisonme nt for a term not exceeding six months or to both. Officers may hunt wildlife 52. Notwithstanding anything in this Act, an officer acting in good faith in the exercise of his powers under this Act may hunt any wildlife if— (a) the wildlife is a danger to human life or property; or (b) it is necessary or expedient to prevent undue suffering on the part of the wildlife. Owner or occupier of land may use birdlime to destroy grain - eating birds 53. (1) Notwithstanding anything in this Act, an owner or occ upier of land may, with the written approval of the Director, use birdlime for the good faith destruction of grain-eating birds found damaging or destroying growing cereals during the period when the crop is ripe or ripening. (2) The Director may, when giving his approval under this section, give directions— (a) as to the setting of the birdlime; and 

 Wildlife Conservation 39 (b) as to the adequate supervision and control over the use of the birdlime. (3) An owner or occupier of land authorized to use birdlime shall comply with the directions under subsection (2). (4) The owner or occupier of land shall, when the crop is reaped, destroy any birdlime and any container, stick or other material upon which birdlime has been used. (5) An owner or occupier of land who contravenes this section commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding ten thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding six months or to both. Capturing or killing of wildlife for protection of crops 54. (1) Notwithstanding anything in this Act, where any wildlife is causing, or there is reason to believe that it is about to cause, serious damage to crops, vegetables, fruits, growing timber, domestic fowls or domestic animals in the possession of an owner or occupier of land, the owner or occupier or any servant of the owner or occupier or any officer may capture or kill the wildlife after first using reasonable efforts to frighten away the wildlife and failing to do so. (2) Where any wildlife has caused serious dama ge under subsection (1) but has ceased to do so, it shall not be captured or killed. (3) The owner or occupier of land shall, without unnecessary delay, report to any officer the details of the occurrence, including the species of the wildlife, the damag e and weapon which has been used (if any) and whether the wildlife has been captured or killed. (4) Any owner or occupier of land or servant of owner or occupier of land who contravenes this section commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding ten thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding six months or to both. 

40 Laws of Malaysia ACT 716 (5) Any wildlife captured or killed under this section shall be the property of the State and shall without delay be handed to an officer. Wildlife which is an immediate danger to human life may be killed 55. (1) Notwithstanding anything in this Act, any person may kill any wildlife if the wildlife constitutes an immediate danger to human life. (2) Where the immediate danger to human life is a result of provocation or wounding of the wildlife by the person who kills the wildlife, the person shall be absolved from guilt only in respect of killing the wildlife but he may be charged in respect of such provocation or wounding under section 88. (3) Any person who kills any wildlife pursuant to this section shall, without unnecessary delay, report to any officer the details of the occurrence, including the species of the wildlife which has been killed and the weapon which has been used. (4) Any person who contravenes subsection (3) commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding ten thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding six months or to both. (5) Any wildlife killed under this section shall be the property of the State and shall without delay be handed to any officer. Presumption of attempting to hunt if decoy is used 56. Where any person is found setting, placing, using or is otherwise in possession of any animal or bird, wild or otherwis e, in such circumstances that there is reason to suspect that the person is using the animal or bird as decoy or bait for the purpose of attracting any wildlife, it shall be presumed that the person is attempting to hunt any wildlife. 

 Wildlife Conservation 41 Presumption of using snare 57. Where a person is found in possession of a snare, it shall be presumed that the snare is being used by the person for the purpose of hunting any wildlife. Presumption against occupier 58. (1) Where any wildlife or any part or derivative of a ny wildlife or snare is found in any premises, it shall be presumed that the occupier of the premises is in possession of the wildlife or part or derivative of the wildlife or snare. (2) Where there is more than one occupier in the premises, the occupier of the portion in which the wildlife or part or derivative of wildlife or snare is found shall be presumed to be the occupier for the purpose of subsection (1). Presumptive evidence 59. Where the Director General or any person certified in writing by him to have special knowledge or skill in wildlife testifies in court under oath that any thing or object, as the case may be, is a wildlife, part or derivative of any wildlife, wildlife’s flesh, trophy, spring gun, sharpened stake, pit, drop spear, snare, bait or poisoned bait, it shall be presumed until the contrary is proven that the thing or object, as the case may be, is a wildlife or part or derivative of any wildlife, wildlife’s flesh, trophy, spring gun, sharpened stake, pit, drop spear, snare, bait or poisoned bait. 

42 Laws of Malaysia ACT 716 PART VII OFFENCES AND PENALTIES Chapter 1 Offences relating to licence Hunting, etc., protected wildlife without licence 60. (1) Subject to subsection (2), any person who— (a) hunts or keeps any protected wildlife (other than immature protected wildlife or the female of a protected wildlife); or (b) takes or keeps any part or derivative of any protected wildlife, without a licence commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding fifty thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding two years or to both. (2) Any person who commits an offence under subsection (1) and which offence involves Common Shama ( Copsychus malabaricus ), Oriental White Eye ( Zosterops palpebrosa ) or Hill Myna ( Gracula religiosa), exceeding twenty heads, shall, on conviction, be punished with a fine of not less than twenty thousand ringgit and not more than fifty thousand ringgit or with imprisonment for a term not exceeding three years or to both. Hunting, etc., immature protected wildlife without licence 61. Any person who hunts or keeps an immature protected wildlife without a licence commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding one hundred thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding five years or to both. 

 Wildlife Conservation 43 Hunting, etc., female of protected wildlife without licence 62. Any person who hunts or keeps the female of a protected wildlife without a licence commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fi ne not exceeding one hundred thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding five years or to both. Carrying out business of dealing, etc., without licence 63. Any person who carries out business of dealing or taxidermy business without a l icence commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding fifty thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding two years or to both. Collecting birds’ nests without licence 64. Any person who collects birds’ nes ts without a licence commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine of not less than twenty thousand ringgit and not more than fifty thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding two years or to both. Importing, etc., protected wildlife without licence 65. Any person who imports, exports or re -exports any protected wildlife or any part or derivative of a protected wildlife without a licence commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine of not less than twenty thousand ringgit and not more than fifty thousand ringgit and to imprisonment for a term not exceeding one year. 

44 Laws of Malaysia ACT 716 Chapter 2 Offences relating to permit Operating zoo, etc., without permit 66. Any person who operates a zoo, commercial captive breeding, circus or wildlife exhibition without a permit commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding seventy thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding three years or to both. Carrying out research or study without permit 67. Any person who carries out a research or study on any protected wildlife without a permit commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding fifty thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding two years or to both. Chapter 3 Offences relating to special permit Hunting, etc., totally protected wildlife without special permit 68. (1) Subject to subsection (2), any person who— (a) hunts or keeps any totally protected wildlife (other than an immature totally protected wildlife or the female of a totally protected wildlife); or (b) takes or keeps any part or derivative of a totally protected wildlife, without a special permit commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not e xceeding one hundred thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding three years or to both. 

 Wildlife Conservation 45 (2) Any person who commits an offence under subsection (1) and which offence involves— (a) Pangolin ( Manis javanica ), Blood Python ( Python brongersmai), Harlequin Monitor ( Varanus rudicollis ), Dumeril’s Monitor ( Varanus dumerilli ) or Clouded Monitor (Varanus bengalensis ), exceeding twenty heads, shall, on conviction, be punished with a fine of not less than fifty thousand ringgit and not more than one hu ndred thousand ringgit or with imprisonment for a term not exceeding three years or to both; (b) Crested Argus ( Rheinardia ocellata ), Mountain Peacock Pheasant ( Polyplectron inopinatum ), Great Argus (Argusianus argus ), Green Peafowl ( Pavo muticus ), Straw-headed Bulbul ( Pycnonotus zeylanicus ), Rhinoceros Hornbill (Buceros rhinoceros), Great Hornbill (Buceros bicornis), Plain -pouched Hornbill ( Aceros subruficollis) or Helmeted Hornbill ( Rhynoplax vigil ) shall, on conviction, be punished with a fine of not less than thirty thousand ringgit and not more than one hundred thousand ringgit and with imprisonment for a term not exceeding two years; or (c) Serow ( Capricornis sumatrensis ), Gaur ( Bos gaurus ), Javan Rhinoceros ( Rhinoceros sondaicus ), Sumatran Rhinoceros (Dicerorhinus sumatrensis ), Tiger ( Panthera tigris), Leopard ( Panthera pardus ), Clouded Leopard (Neofelis nebulosa) or False Gharial ( Tomistoma schlegelii) shall, on conviction, be punished with a fine of not less than one hundred thousand ringgit and not more than five hundred thousand ringgit and with imprisonment for a term not exceeding five years. Hunting, etc., immature totally protected wildlife without special permit 69. (1) Subject to subsection (2), any person who hunts or keeps any immature totally protected wildlife without a special permit 

46 Laws of Malaysia ACT 716 commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding two hundred thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding ten years or to both. (2) Any person who commits an offenc e under subsection (1) and which offence involves wildlife specified in paragraph 68(2)(c), shall, on conviction, be punished with a fine of not less than one hundred and fifty thousand ringgit and not more than five hundred thousand ringgit and with imprisonment for a term not exceeding five years. Hunting, etc., female of totally protected wildlife without special permit 70. (1) Subject to subsection (2), any person who hunts or keeps the female of a totally protected wildlife without a special permit commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding three hundred thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding ten years or to both. (2) Any person who commits an offence under subsection (1) and which offence involves wildlife specified in paragraph 68(2)(c), shall, on conviction, be punished with a fine of not less than two hundred thousand ringgit and not more than five hundred thousand ringgit and with imprisonment for a term not exceeding five years. Importing, etc., totally protected wildlife without special permit 71. Any person who imports, exports or re -exports any totally protected wildlife or any part or derivative of a totally protected wildlife without a special permit commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine of not less than thirty thousand ringgit and not more than one hundred thousand ringgit and to imprisonment for a term not exceeding three years. Using, etc., totally protected wildlife without special permit 72. (1) Subject to subsections (2) and (3), any person who— 

 Wildlife Conservation 47 (a) uses any totally protected wildlife for his zoo, circus or wildlife exhibition operation; or (b) uses any totally protected wildlife for his commercial captive breeding operation, without a special permit commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding one hundred thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding three years or to both. (2) Any person who commits an offence under subsection (1), and which offence involves wildlife specified in paragraph 68(2) (b), shall, on conviction, be punished with a fine of not less than thirty thousand ringgit and not more than one hundred thousand ringgit and with imprisonment for a term not exceeding two years. (3) Any person who commits an offence under subsection (1) and which offence involves wildlife specified in paragraph 68(2)(c), shall, on conviction, be punished with a fine of not less than one hundred thousand and not more than five hundred thousand ringgit and wit h imprisonment for a term not exceeding five years. Carrying out research or study without special permit 73. Any person who carries out research or study on any totally protected wildlife without a special permit commits an offence and shall, on convic tion, be liable to a fine not exceeding seventy thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding three years or to both. Chapter 4 Miscellaneous Damaging, etc., nest or egg of protected wildlife 74. Any person who damages or destroys the ne st or egg of a protected wildlife commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be 

48 Laws of Malaysia ACT 716 liable to a fine not exceeding twenty thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding one year or to both. Damaging, etc., nest or egg of totally protected wildlife 75. Any person who damages or destroys the nest or egg of a totally protected wildlife commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding fifty thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding two years or to both. Hunting, etc., wildlife in wildlife reserve or wildlife sanctuary 76. Any person who, whether he is a holder of a licence or special permit or otherwise— (a) hunts any wildlife; or (b) takes, destroys or damages the nest or egg of any wildlife, in a wi ldlife reserve or a wildlife sanctuary commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding fifty thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding two years or to both. Hunting wildlife during prohibited hours 77. Any person who, whether he is a licensed hunter, holder of a special permit or otherwise, hunts any wildlife other than during the hours prescribed commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding thirty thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding one year or to both. Hunting protected wildlife during close season 78. Any person who, whether is a licensed hunter or otherwise, hunts any protected wildlife during the close season commits an 

 Wildlife Conservation 49 offence and shall, o n conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding twenty thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding one year or to both. Hunting wildlife with poison, etc. 79. (1) Any person who, whether he is a licensed hunter, a holder of a special permit or otherwise, sets, places or uses any poison, bait, poisoned bait, birdlime or net for the purpose of hunting any wildlife commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding fifty thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding two years or to both. (2) This section shall not apply to any public officer who places or uses any poison in the course of his official duties for the purpose of destroying agricultural pest or noxious vegetation subject to the supervision of the Director as to the setting or use of the poison. Hunting wildlife with arms or traps other than prescribed 80. Any person, whether he is a licensed hunter, a holder of a special permit or otherwise, who hunts any wildlife with any arms or traps other than prescribed commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding twenty thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding one year or to both. Hunting, etc., wildlife within four hundred metres of salt lick 81. Any person, whether he is a licensed hunter, a holder of a special permit or otherwise, who— (a) hunts any wildlife within four hundred metres of a salt lick; (b) is in possession of any arms, bow and arrow, blowpipe, spear, catapult or any other arti cle, which is capable of 

50 Laws of Malaysia ACT 716 being used in hunting any wildlife within four hundred metres of a salt lick; or (c) waits in any place, builds any platform or shelter or sets or places any trap, poison, poisoned bait, birdlime or net for the purpose of hunting any wildlife within four hundred meters of a salt lick or within any access road to a salt lick, commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding fifty thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding two years or to both. Hunting wildlife from conveyance 82. Any person, whether he is a licensed hunter, a holder of a special permit or otherwise, who hunts any wildlife from any conveyance commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding thirty thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding one year or to both. Possession of licence, etc., bearing other’s name 83. Any person who, without any reasonable cause, is in possession of, or is found to have in his premises, anothe r person’s licence, permit or special permit, commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding twenty thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding one year or to both. Licence, etc., kept at different address 84. A holder of a licence, permit or special permit who, without any reasonable cause, keeps his licence, permit or special permit at an address other than the address stated in his licence, permit or special permit, commits an offence and shall, on conv iction, be liable to a fine not exceeding twenty thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding one year or to both. 

 Wildlife Conservation 51 Disturbing salt lick or its vicinity 85. (1) Save as otherwise provided in this section, any person who disturbs— (a) any salt lick; or (b) the land in the immediate vicinity of any salt lick, which land if disturbed would render the salt lick unattractive or unsafe to any wildlife, commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding fifty thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding two years or to both. (2) For the purposes of this section, ―disturb‖ includes to remove or agitate any soil, mineral, water, tree, shrubs, undergrowth or other vegetation in or on the salt lick or in or on th e land in the immediate vicinity of the salt lick. (3) This section shall not apply to— (a) the Federal Government; or (b) any State Government, acting, as the case may require, in pursuance of any rural development scheme, urban development scheme, forestry management scheme or industrial undertaking. Cruelty to wildlife 86. (1) Save as otherwise provided in this section, any person who— (a) beats, kicks, infuriates, terrifies, tortures, declaws or defangs any wildlife; 

52 Laws of Malaysia ACT 716 (b) neglects to supply sufficient food or water to any wildlife which he houses, confines or breeds; (c) keeps, houses, confines or breeds any wildlife in such manner so as to cause it unnecessary pain or suffering including the housing, confining or breeding of any wildlife in any premises which is not suitable for or conducive to the comfort or health of the wildlife; (d) uses any wildlife for performing or assisting in the performance of any work or labour which by reason of any infirmity, wound, disease or any other incapacity it is unfit to perform; (e) uses, provokes or infuriates any wildlife for the purpose of baiting it or for fighting with any other wildlife or animal, or manages any premises or place for any of these purposes; or (f) wilfully does or wilfully omits to do anything which causes any unn ecessary suffering, pain or discomfort to any wildlife, commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine of not less than five thousand ringgit and not more than fifty thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding one year o r to both. (2) This section shall not apply to any person who wounds any wildlife in the course of lawfully hunting it under this Act. Things containing derivative of totally protected wildlife 87. Any person who sells any thing which contains or is c laimed to contain any derivative of any totally protected wildlife commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding twenty thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding one year or to both. 

 Wildlife Conservation 53 Provocation of wildlife 88. Any person who provokes or wounds any wildlife which consequently becomes an immediate danger to human life commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding thirty thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not ex ceeding one year or to both. PART VIII POWERS RELATING TO ENFORCEMENT Offences under Act to be seizable offences 89. Every offence under this Act shall be a seizable offence for the purposes of the Criminal Procedure Code [Act 593]. Authorization of public officer 90. The Director General may, in writing, authorize any public officer to exercise the powers of enforcement under this Act. Authority card 91. (1) The Director General shall issue to each enforcement officer and public officer authorize d under section 90 an authority card which shall be signed by the Director General. (2) Whenever such officer exercises any of the powers under this Act, he shall, on demand, produce to the person against whom the power is being exercised the authority c ard issued to him under subsection (1). 

54 Laws of Malaysia ACT 716 Power of investigation 92. (1) An enforcement officer shall have all the powers to detect and investigate the commission of any offence or suspected offence under this Act. (2) For the avoidance of doubt, it is declared that for the purposes of this Act, an enforcement officer shall have all or any of the powers of a police officer of whatever rank in relation to police investigations in seizable cases as provided for under the Criminal Procedure Code, and such powers shall be in addition to the powers provided for under this Act and not in derogation thereof. Power of arrest 93. (1) An enforcement officer may arrest without warrant any person whom he reasonably believes has committed or is attempting to com mit an offence under this Act or any of its subsidiary legislation. (2) An enforcement officer making an arrest under subsection (1) shall, without unnecessary delay, bring the person arrested to the nearest police station, and thereafter the person shal l be dealt in accordance with the law relating to criminal procedure for the time being in force. Search and seizure with warrant 94. (1) If it appears to a Magistrate, upon written information on oath from an enforcement officer and after such inquiry as the Magistrate considers necessary, that there is reasonable cause to believe that— (a) any premises has been used; or (b) there is in any premises evidence necessary to the conduct of an investigation into, 

 Wildlife Conservation 55 the commission of an offence under this Ac t or any of its subsidiary legislation, the Magistrate may issue a warrant authorizing the enforcement officer named in the warrant, at any reasonable time by day or by night and with or without assistance, to enter the premises and if need be by force. (2) Without affecting the generality of subsection (1), a warrant issued by the Magistrate may authorize the enforcement officer to— (a) search the premises for, and to seize or remove from the premises, any wildlife, part or derivative of any wildlife, snare, trap, bait, poisoned bait, arms, conveyance, book, record, document or thing that is reasonably believed to furnish evidence of the commission of such offence; (b) take samples of any wildlife, part or derivative of any wildlife or thing found in the premi ses for the purposes of ascertaining, by testing or otherwise, whether the offence has been committed; and (c) make copies of or take extracts from any book, record, document or thing found in the premises. (3) An enforcement officer entering any premises u nder this section may take with him such other person and equipment as may appear to him to be necessary. (4) An enforcement officer conducting a search under subsection (1) may, for the purpose of investigating into the offence, search any person who is in or on the premises. (5) An enforcement officer making a search of person under subsection (4) or section 95 may seize or take possession of, and place in safe custody all things, other than the necessary clothing found upon the person, and any of those things, which there is reason to believe were the instruments or other evidence of the offence may be detained until the discharge or acquittal of the person. (6) An enforcement officer may, in the exercise of his powers under this section, if it is necessary so to do— 

56 Laws of Malaysia ACT 716 (a) break open any outer or inner door or window of the premises or any fence, enclosure, gate or other obstruction to the premises in order to effect entry into the premises and every part thereof; (b) remove by force any obstruction to en try, search, seizure and removal as he is empowered to effect under this section; and (c) detain any person found in the premises until the search has been completed. (7) Where, by reason of its nature, size or amount, it is not practicable to remove any wi ldlife, part or derivative of any wildlife, snare, trap, bait, poisoned bait, arms, conveyance, book, record, document or thing seized under this section, the enforcement officer shall, by any means, seal such wildlife, part or derivative of any wildlife, snare, trap, bait, poisoned bait, arms, conveyance, book, record, document or thing in the premises or container in which it is found. (8) A person who, without lawful authority, breaks, tampers with or damages the seal referred to in subsection (7) or r emoves the wildlife, part or derivative of any wildlife, snare, trap, bait, poisoned bait, arms, conveyance, book, record, document or thing under seal, or attempts to do so commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding one hundred thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding two years or to both. Search and seizure without warrant 95. If an enforcement officer is satisfied upon information received that he has reasonable cause to believe that by reason of delay in obtaining a search warrant under section 94 the investigation would be adversely affected or evidence of the commission of an offence is likely to be tampered with, removed, damaged or destroyed, the enforcement officer may enter the premises and exercise in, upon and in respect of the premises all the powers referred to in section 94 in as 

 Wildlife Conservation 57 full and ample a manner as if he were authorized to do so by a warrant issued under that section. Search of person 96. No person shall be searched except by another person of the same gender, and such search shall be conducted with strict regard to decency. Power to enter land 97. Notwithstanding sections 94 and 95, an enforcement officer may enter without warrant any State land, reserved land, permanent reserved forest, alienated land and mining land for the purpose of preventing or detecting any offence under this Act or any of its subsidiary legislation. Power to enter premises 98. Notwithstanding sections 94 and 95, an enforcement officer may at any time enter any premises for the purposes of— (a) inspecting any wildlife, part or derivative of any wildlife, conveyance, book, record, document or thing as he considers necessary; (b) verifying the accuracy of records or statements or any information given to an enforcement officer; or (c) collecting samples of any wildlife or part or derivative of any wildlife. 

58 Laws of Malaysia ACT 716 Access to computerized data 99. (1) An enforcement officer conducting a search under this Act shall be given access to computerized data whether sto red in a computer or otherwise. (2) For the purposes of this section, ―access‖— (a) includes being provided with the necessary password, encryption code, decryption code, software or hardware and any other means required to enable comprehension of the computerized data; and (b) has the meaning assigned to it by subsections 2(2) and (5) of the Computer Crimes Act 1997 [Act 563]. Setting up, etc., obstruction on road, etc. 100. (1) The Director may, if he suspects that an offence under this Act or any of its s ubsidiary legislation has been committed, give directions to any enforcement officer to get the assistance of the police to set up or place an obstruction or roadblock on any public road or highway or any public place, for the purpose of stopping any vehicle for examination. (2) An enforcement officer who stops any vehicle under subsection (1) may exercise all the powers referred to in section 100. Power to stop, search and seize conveyance 101. (1) If an enforcement officer has reasonable cause to sus pect that any conveyance is carrying any wildlife, part or derivative of any wildlife, snare, trap, bait, poisoned bait, arms, book, record, document or thing in respect of which an offence under this Act or any of its subsidiary legislation is being or ha s been committed, he may stop and search the conveyance and may, if on examination he has reasonable cause to believe that such conveyance is or has been used for the commission of such offence, seize such conveyance and 

 Wildlife Conservation 59 any wildlife, part or derivative of any wildlife, snare, trap, bait, poisoned bait, arms, book, record, document or thing found in the conveyance that is reasonably believed to furnish evidence of the commission of such offence. (2) The person in control or in charge of the conveyance sha ll, if required to do so by the enforcement officer— (a) stop the conveyance and allow the enforcement officer to search it; and (b) open all parts of the conveyance for search and take all measures necessary to enable or facilitate the carrying out of the searc h as the enforcement officer considers necessary. (3) The enforcement officer may, in the exercise of his powers under this section, if it is necessary so to do, detain any person found in the conveyance until the search has been completed. (4) Any per son who contravenes subsection (2) commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding thirty thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding one year or to both. Warrant admissible notwithstanding defects 102. A search warrant issued under this Act shall be valid and enforceable notwithstanding any defect, mistake or omission therein or in the application for such warrant, and any wildlife, part or derivative of any wildlife, snare, trap, bait, poisoned bait, arms, conveyance, book, record, document or thing seized under such warrant shall be admissible in evidence in any proceedings under this Act. 

60 Laws of Malaysia ACT 716 List of things seized 103. (1) Where any seizure is made under this Act, the enforcement officer making the sei zure shall prepare a list of the wildlife, part or derivative of any wildlife, snare, trap, bait, poisoned bait, arms, conveyance, book, record, document or thing seized and of the place in which the wildlife, part or derivative of any wildlife, snare, trap, bait, poisoned bait, arms, conveyance, book, record, document or thing is found and shall sign the list. (2) The list prepared in accordance with subsection (1) shall be delivered immediately to— (a) the occupier of the premises where the seized wildlife , part or derivative of any wildlife, snare, trap, bait, poisoned bait, arms, conveyance, book, record, document or thing is found; or (b) the person in control or in charge of the conveyance where the seizure is made under section 100 or 101. (3) Where the seizure is made in or from any premises which is unoccupied, the enforcement officer shall whenever possible post a list of things seized conspicuously at or on the premises. Temporary return of conveyance 104. (1) Where any conveyance is seized under this Act, the court may temporarily return the conveyance to the owner of the conveyance or the person from whose possession, custody or control it was seized, subject to such terms and conditions as the court may impose, and subject in any case to suffici ent security being furnished to the satisfaction of the court that the conveyance shall be surrendered to the court on demand and that such terms and conditions, if any, shall be complied with. (2) Where any seized conveyance is temporarily returned unde r subsection (1), a person who— 

 Wildlife Conservation 61 (a) fails, on demand, to surrender the conveyance to the court; or (b) contravenes any of the terms or conditions imposed under subsection (1), commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding one hu ndred thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding three years or to both. Disposal of seized wildlife 105. (1) Where an enforcement officer in exercising his powers under this Part seizes any wildlife or part or derivative of any wildlife, he may immediately produce the wildlife or part or derivative of any wildlife before a Magistrate who shall order that the wildlife or part or derivative of any wildlife be released or disposed of. (2) Notwithstanding subsection (1), where by reason of— (a) the nature, size or amount of the wildlife or part or derivative of any wildlife; or (b) distance or circumstances, it is not practicable to bring the wildlife or part or derivative of any wildlife before a Magistrate, the Director may order the wildlife or part or derivative of any wildlife to be released or disposed of as he thinks fit. Power to require attendance of person acquainted with case 106. (1) The enforcement officer making an investigation under this Act or any of its subsidiary legislati on may, by order in writing, require the attendance before himself of any person who appears to him to be acquainted with the facts and circumstances of the case, and such person shall attend as required. 

62 Laws of Malaysia ACT 716 (2) If any such person refuses or fails to attend as required by an order made under subsection (1), the enforcement officer may report his refusal or failure to a Magistrate who shall issue a summons to secure the attendance of such person as may be required by the order. Examination of persons acquainted with case 107. (1) An enforcement officer making an investigation under this Act or any of its subsidiary legislation may examine orally any person supposed to be acquainted with the facts and circumstances of the case. (2) Such person shall be boun d to answer all questions relating to such case put to him by the enforcement officer, but he may refuse to answer any question the answer to which would have a tendency to expose him to a criminal charge or penalty or forfeiture. (3) A person making a statement under this section shall be legally bound to state the truth, whether or not such statement is made wholly or partly in answer to questions. (4) The enforcement officer examining a person under subsection (1) shall first inform that person of the provisions of subsections (2) and (3). (5) A statement made by any person under this section shall, wherever possible, be reduced into writing and signed by the person making it or affixed with his thumb-print, as the case may be, after— (a) it has been r ead to him in the language in which he made it; and (b) he has been given an opportunity to make any correction he may wish. 

 Wildlife Conservation 63 Admissibility of statements in evidence 108. (1) Except as provided in this section, no statement made by any person to an enforcement officer in the course of an investigation made under this Act shall be used in evidence. (2) When any witness is called for the prosecution or for the defence, other than the accused, the court shall, on the request of the accused or the prosecut or, refer to any statement made by that witness to the enforcement officer in the course of investigation under this Act and may then, if the court thinks fit in the interest of justice, direct the accused to be furnished with a copy of it and the statement may be used to impeach the credit of the witness in the manner provided by the Evidence Act 1950 [Act 56]. (3) Where the accused had made a statement during the course of an investigation, such statement may be admitted in evidence in support of his defence during the course of the trial. (4) Nothing in this section shall be deemed to apply to any statement made in the course of an identification parade or falling within section 27 or paragraphs 32(1)( a), (i) and ( j) of the Evidence Act 1950. (5) When any person is charged with any offence in relation to— (a) the making; or (b) the contents, of any statement made by him to an authorized officer in the course of an investigation made under this Act, that statement may be used as evidence in the prosecution’s case. Release of things seized 109. (1) If any wildlife, part or derivative of any wildlife, snare, trap, bait, poisoned bait, arms, conveyance, book, record, document or thing has been seized under this Act, the enforcement officer who 

64 Laws of Malaysia ACT 716 effected the seizure may, after referring to the Public Prosecutor, release the wildlife, part or derivative of any wildlife, snare, trap, bait, poisoned bait, arms, conveyance, book, record, document or thing to the person as he determines to be lawfully entitled to it, if the wildlife, part or derivative of any wildlife, snare, trap, bait, poisoned bait, arms, conveyance, book, record, document or thing is not liable to forfeiture under this Act, and is not otherwise required for the purpose of any proceedings under this Act or for the purpose of any prosecution under any other written law. (2) A record in writing shall be made by the enforcement officer effecting the release of the wildlife, part or derivative of any wildlife, snare, trap, bait, poisoned bait, arms, conveyance, book, record, document or thing under subsection (1) specifying in detail the circumstances of and the reason for the release, and he shall send a copy of the record to the Public Prosecutor within seven days of the release. (3) For the purp ose of this section, the enforcement officer effecting the seizure, the Federal Government or any person acting on behalf of the Federal Government shall not be liable to any proceedings by any person if the seizure and the release of the wildlife, part or derivative of any wildlife, snare, trap, bait, poisoned bait, arms, conveyance, book, record, document or thing had been effected in good faith. Forfeiture of wildlife, etc., seized 110. (1) Any wildlife, part or derivative of any wildlife, snare, trap, bait, poisoned bait, arms, conveyance, book, record, document or thing seized in the exercise of any powers under this Act shall be liable to forfeiture. (2) An order for the forfeiture of any wildlife, part or derivative of any wildlife, snare, trap, bait, poisoned bait, arms, conveyance, book, record, document or thing seized and liable to forfeiture under this Act shall be made by the court before which the prosecution with regard thereto has been held and an order for the forfeiture of the things seized shall be made if it is proved to the satisfaction of the 

 Wildlife Conservation 65 court that an offence under this Act or any of its subsidiary legislation has been committed and that the wildlife, part or derivative of any wildlife, snare, trap, bait, poisoned bait, arms, co nveyance, book, record, document or thing was the subject matter of or was used in the commission of the offence, even though no person has been convicted of such offence. (3) If there is no prosecution with regard to any wildlife, part or derivative of any wildlife, snare, trap, bait, poisoned bait, arms, conveyance, book, record, document or thing seized under this Act, such wildlife, part or derivative of any wildlife, snare, trap, bait, poisoned bait, arms, conveyance, book, record, document or thing shall be taken and deemed to be forfeited at the expiration of a period of one calendar month from the date of service of a notice to the last - known address of the person from whom the wildlife, part or derivative of any wildlife, snare, trap, bait, poison ed bait, arms, conveyance, book, record, document or thing was seized indicating that there is no prosecution in respect of such wildlife, part or derivative of any wildlife, snare, trap, bait, poisoned bait, arms, conveyance, book, record, document or thing, unless before the expiration of that period a claim to it is made in the manner set out in subsections (4), (5), (6) and (7). (4) Any person asserting that he is the owner of the wildlife, part or derivative of any wildlife, snare, trap, bait, poison ed bait, arms, conveyance, book, record, document or thing referred to in subsection (3) and that the wildlife, part or derivative of any wildlife, snare, trap, bait, poisoned bait, arms, conveyance, book, record, document or thing is not liable to forfeit ure may personally or by his agent authorized in writing, give written notice to the enforcement officer in whose possession such wildlife, part or derivative of any wildlife, snare, trap, bait, poisoned bait, arms, conveyance, book, record, document or th ing is held that he claims the wildlife, part or derivative of any wildlife, snare, trap, bait, poisoned bait, arms, conveyance, book, record, document or thing. (5) On receipt of the notice referred to in subsection (4), the enforcement officer shall re fer the claim to a Magistrate of the First Class for his decision. 

66 Laws of Malaysia ACT 716 (6) The Magistrate to whom a matter is referred under subsection (5) shall issue a summons requiring the person asserting that he is the owner of the wildlife, part or derivative of any wildlife, snare, trap, bait, poisoned bait, arms, conveyance, book, record, document or thing and the person from whom it was seized to appear before the Magistrate, and when they appear or they fail to appear, due service of the summons having been proved, the Magistrate shall proceed to the examination of the matter. (7) If it is proved that an offence under this Act or any of its subsidiary legislation has been committed and that such wildlife, part or derivative of any wildlife, snare, trap, bait, pois oned bait, arms, conveyance, book, record, document or thing referred to in subsection (6) was the subject matter of or was used in the commission of such offence, the Magistrate shall order the wildlife, part or derivative of any wildlife, snare, trap, ba it, poisoned bait, arms, conveyance, book, record, document or thing to be forfeited, and shall, in the absence of such proof, order its release. (8) Any wildlife, part or derivative of any wildlife, snare, trap, bait, poisoned bait, arms, conveyance, bo ok, record, document or thing forfeited or deemed to be forfeited shall be delivered to the Director General and shall be disposed of in such manner as the Director General thinks fit. Property in forfeited wildlife, etc. 111. Any wildlife, part or deri vative of any wildlife, snare, trap, bait, poisoned bait, arms, conveyance, book, record, document or thing forfeited or deemed to be forfeited under this Act shall be the property of the Government. Cost of holding wildlife, etc., seized 112. Where any wildlife, part or derivative of any wildlife, snare, trap, bait, poisoned bait, arms, conveyance, book, record, document or thing seized under this Act is held in the custody of the Government pending completion of any proceedings in respect of an offence under this Act, the cost of holding it in custody shall, in the 

 Wildlife Conservation 67 event of any person being convicted of such offence, be a debt due to the Government, by such person and shall be recoverable accordingly. No costs or damages arising from seizure to be recoverable 113. No person shall, in any proceedings before any court in respect of any wildlife, part or derivative of any wildlife, snare, trap, bait, poisoned bait, arms, conveyance, book, record, document or thing seized in the exercise or the purported exercise of any power conferred under this Act, be entitled to the costs of such proceedings or to any damages or other relief unless such seizure was made without reasonable cause. Obstruction to search 114. Any person who— (a) refuses any enforcement off icer access to any premise which the enforcement officer is entitled to have under this Act or any of its subsidiary legislation or in the execution of any duty imposed or power conferred by this Act; (b) assaults, obstructs, hinders or delays any enforce ment officer in effecting any entry which the enforcement officer is entitled to effect under this Act or in the execution of any duty imposed or power conferred by this Act; or (c) refuses any enforcement officer any information relating to an offence or suspected offence under this Act or any of its subsidiary legislation or any other information which may reasonably be required of him and which he has in his knowledge or power to give, 

68 Laws of Malaysia ACT 716 commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding thirty thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding one year or to both. Additional powers 115. (1) An enforcement officer shall, for the purposes of the execution of this Act or any of its subsidiary legislation, have power to do all or any of the following acts: (a) to require the production of records and documents and to inspect, examine and copy any of them; (b) to require the production of any identification document from any person in relation to any case or offence under this Act or any of its subsidiary legislation; (c) to make such inquiry as may be necessary to ascertain whether the provisions of this Act or any of its subsidiary legislation have been complied with. (2) A person who fails to comply with a request made under subsection (1) commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding thirty thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding one year or to both. Joinder of offences 116. Notwithstanding anything contained in section 16 4 of the Criminal Procedure Code, where a person is accused of more than one offence under this Act or any of its subsidiary legislation, he may be charged with and tried at one trial for any number of such offences committed within the space of any length of time. 

 Wildlife Conservation 69 PART IX GENERAL Controlled species 117. (1) No person shall keep, sell, purchase, import or export any controlled species specified in the Fifth Schedule. (2) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) commits an offence and shall, on co nviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding thirty thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding one year or to both. Hybrid deemed a controlled species 118. For the purposes of this Act, a hybrid shall be deemed to be a controlled species and shall be subject to section 117. Prohibition on hybridization activity 119. (1) No person shall carry out any hybridization activity without prior written permission of the Director General. (2) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding fifty thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding two years or to both. Purchase of protected wildlife, etc., by persons other than licensed dealer, etc. 120. (1) A person, other than a licensed dealer or licensed taxidermist, shall purchase or acquire any protected wildlife or any part or derivative of any protected wildlife from— (a) a licensed dealer or licensed taxidermist; or 

70 Laws of Malaysia ACT 716 (b) a Director where it is sold by t he Director pursuant to this Act. (2) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding twenty thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding one year or to both. Sale of wildlife unlawfully hunted 121. (1) Any wildlife— (a) which is hunted under section 53, 54 or 55 or in contravention of the provisions of this Act or any of its subsidiary legislation; or (b) whose unclaimed carcass is found in any State land or permanent reserved forest or any other land, may be sold or disposed of by the Director as he thinks fit. (2) All moneys received under this section shall be paid into and form part of the Consolidated Fund of the State where the wildlife was hunted or whose unclaimed carcass was found. Report on dangerous wildlife to be made 122. (1) Any person who wounds a dangerous wildlife shall, without unnecessary delay, make a report to any officer or the district officer of the district in which the dangerous wildlife was wounded. (2) The report shall specify the dangerous wildlife, weapon which inflicted the wound, time, date and place where it was wounded. (3) Where the person wounding the dangerous wildlife is, by reason of serious injury, unable to make a report, he shall at the first reasonable opportunity request any other person to make a report as specified under this section. 

 Wildlife Conservation 71 (4) For the purpose of this section, ―dangerous wildlife‖ means elephant ( Elephas maximus ), gaur ( Bos gaurus ), bear (Helarctos malayanus), tiger ( Panthera tigris ), leopard ( Panthera pardus), panther, wild pig ( sus scrofa ) and any other wildlife which constitutes an immediate danger to human life pursuant to section 55. Report made to public officer to be conveyed to officer 123. Where— (a) any report or complaint concerning any matter relating to this Act is made; (b) any information concerning any matter relating to this Act is conveyed; or (c) any wildlife or any part or derivative of any wildlife is delivered, to any public officer, he shal l, without unnecessary delay, inform any officer of the matter. Offence committed by body corporate 124. (1) Where a body corporate commits an offence under this Act or any of its subsidiary legislation, any person who at the time of the commission of t he offence was a chief executive officer, director, manager, secretary or other similar officer of the body corporate or was purporting to act in any such capacity or was in any manner or to any extent responsible for the management of any of the affairs of the body corporate or was assisting in such management— (a) may be charged severally or jointly in the same proceedings with the body corporate; and (b) where the body corporate is found guilty of the offence, shall be deemed to be guilty of that offence unles s, having 

72 Laws of Malaysia ACT 716 regard to the nature of his functions in that capacity and to all circumstances, he proves— (i) that the offence was committed without his knowledge, consent or connivance; and (ii) that he took all reasonable precautions and had exercised due diligence to prevent the commission of the offence. (2) Where any person would be liable under this Act or any of its subsidiary legislation to any punishment or penalty for any act, omission, neglect or default, he shall be liable to the same punishment or penalty for every such act, omission, neglect or default of any employee or agent of his, or of the employee of such agent, if such act, omission, neglect or default was committed— (a) by his employee in the course of his employment; (b) by the agent when acting on his behalf; or (c) by the employee of such agent in the course of his employment by such agent or otherwise on behalf of the agent. General offence 125. Any person who contravenes or fails to comply with— (a) the provisions of this Act or any of its subsidiary legislation; (b) any order made by a Magistrate or the Minister pursuant to this Act; (c) any order or direction given by the Director General under this Act; or (d) the conditions or requirements specified in a licence, permit or special permit, 

 Wildlife Conservation 73 commits and offence and shall, where no penalty is expressly provided, be liable to a fine not exceeding ten thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding one year or to both. Compounding of offences 126. (1) The Director General may, with t he consent of the Public Prosecutor, offer to compound any offence committed by any person under this Act or any of its subsidiary legislation and prescribed to be a compoundable offence by regulations made under this Act. (2) Notwithstanding subsection (1), the offences specified under paragraphs 68(2)(b) and (c), subsections 69(2), 70(2), 72(2) and 72(3) shall not be compoundable offences. (3) An offer under subsection (1) may be made by accepting from the person reasonably suspected of having committ ed the offence a sum of money not exceeding fifty per centum of the maximum fine to which the person would have been liable to if he had been convicted of the offence, within such time as may be specified in the offer. (4) An offer under subsection (3) m ay be made at any time after the offence has been committed, but before any prosecution for it has been instituted, and where the amount specified in the offer under subsection (1) is not paid within the time specified in the offer, or within such extended time as the Director General may grant, prosecution for the offence may be instituted at any time after that against the person to whom the offer was made. (5) Where an offence has been compounded under subsection (3), no prosecution shall after that be instituted in respect of such offence against the person to whom the offer to compound was made and any wildlife, part or derivative of any wildlife, snare, trap, bait, poisoned bait, arms, conveyance, book, record, document or thing seized in connection with the offence may be released or forfeited by the Director General, subject to such terms and conditions as the Director General thinks fit to impose in accordance with the conditions of the compound. 

74 Laws of Malaysia ACT 716 Institution of prosecution 127. No prosecution for or in relation to an offence under this Act shall be instituted except by or with the written consent of the Public Prosecutor. Protection against suit and legal proceedings 128. No action shall lie or prosecution shall be brought, instituted or maintained in any court against— (a) an enforcement officer or officer for or on account of or in respect of any act done or purported to be done by him; and (b) any other person for or on account of or in respect of any act done or purported to be done by him under t he order, direction or instruction of an enforcement officer or officer, if the act was done in good faith and in a reasonable belief that it was necessary for the purpose intended to be served by it and for the carrying into effect the provisions of this Act. Public Authorities Protection Act 1948 129. The Public Authorities Protection Act 1948 [ Act 198 ] shall apply to any action, suit, prosecution or proceedings against an enforcement officer or officer in respect of any act, neglect or default done or omitted to be done by him. Protection of informers 130. (1) Except as provided in subsections (2) and (3), no witness in any civil or criminal proceedings shall be obliged or permitted to disclose the name or address of an informer or the substance of the 

 Wildlife Conservation 75 information received from him or to state any matter which might lead to his discovery. (2) If any record, document or computerized data which is in evidence or liable to inspection in any civil or criminal proceedings contains any entry in which an y informer is named or described or which might lead to his discovery, the court shall cause all such passages to be concealed from view or to be obliterated so far only as may be necessary to protect the informer from discovery. (3) If on the trial for any offence under this Act or any of its subsidiary legislation, the court after full inquiry into the case believes that the informer wilfully made in his complaint a material statement which he knew or believed to be false or did not believe to be true, or if in any other proceedings the court is of the opinion that justice cannot be fully done between the parties in that proceedings without the discovery of the informer, the court may require the production of the original complaint, if in writing, and permit inquiry and require full disclosure, concerning the informer. Rewards 131. The Director General may order such rewards as he thinks fi t to be paid to any person for services rendered in connection with the detection of any offence under this Act or any of its subsidiary legislation, or in connection with any seizures made under this Act. Regulations 132. (1) The Minister may make such regulations as may be expedient or necessary for the better carrying out the provisions of this Act or for pres cribing anything that may be, or is required to be, prescribed under this Act. (2) Without prejudice to the generality of subsection (1), regulations may be made in respect of the following: 

76 Laws of Malaysia ACT 716 (a) disseminating information on wildlife including their breeding habits, habitat, species and ways or means of helping to conserve them; (b) the administration and management of wildlife reserves and wildlife sanctuaries; (c) the conditions under which totally protected wildlife or protected wildlife may be kept and bred; (d) the means of disposing any wildlife; (e) regulating the operation of zoo, commercial captive breeding, circus or wildlife exhibitions; (f) the specifications of containers for importing and exporting live wildlife; (g) the fees payable under this Act; (h) the offences which may be compounded. (3) Regulations made under this section may prescribe any act or omission in contravention of the regulations to be an offence and may prescribe penalties of a fine not exceeding one hundred thousand ringgit or imprisonment for a term not exceeding five years or to both. Power of the Minister to exempt 133. The Minister may, by order published in the Gazette, exempt any person or class of persons or any activity or class of activities relating to wildlife from all or any of the provisions of this Act or any of its subsidiary legislation. 

 Wildlife Conservation 77 Power to amend Schedules 134. The Minister may, by order published in the Gazette, amend the Schedules to this Act. Repeal and saving provisions 135. (1) The Protection of Wildlife Act 1972 [ Act 76 ] (the ―repealed Act‖) is repealed. (2) All declarations of wildlife reserves and wildlife sanctuaries under the repealed Act shall continue to have effect as if they had been made under the provisions this Act. (3) The persons who were app ointed under the repealed Act shall continue to be officers under this Act as if those persons had been appointed under section 4 of this Act. (4) All regulations, directions and orders made, licences, permits and special permits granted and records kept , under the repealed Act, shall continue to be in force and have effect as if they had been made, granted and kept under this Act. (5) All pending applications, approvals and decisions, on appeal or otherwise, relating to a licence, permit or special per mit shall, on the commencement of this Act, be dealt with under this Act. (6) Any inquiry, trial and proceedings done, taken or commenced under the repealed Act immediately before the commencement of this Act shall be continued or concluded under and in accordance with the provisions of the repealed Act. Transitional provision 136. (1) Any person who, on the date of the coming into operation of this Act, is undertaking an activity to which this Act applies shall, within six months from the date of the coming into operation of this 

78 Laws of Malaysia ACT 716 Act, apply for a licence, permit or special permit under this Act, as the case may be. (2) Upon receipt of an application under subsection (1), the licensing officer shall issue an acknowledgment of receipt to such person. (3) Pending the determination of such application, such person may continue to undertake the activity. (4) Any person who keeps or has in his possession any controlled species shall, on the coming into operation of this Act, report to the Director General on the controlled species and the Director General shall, upon receiving the report, consider whether or not to permit the person to keep or possess the species. (5) Permission granted under subsection (4) may be subject to such conditions as the Director General thinks fit to impose. (6) Where the Director General does not grant permission under subsection (4), the Director General may seize and dispose of the controlled species and no compensation shall be payable by the Director General for the disposal of the controlled species. FIRST SCHEDULE [section 3] PROTECTED WILDLIFE Interpretation of the First Schedule 1. Species included in this Schedule are referred to— (a) by the name of the species; or (b) as being all of the species included in a highe r taxon or designated part thereof. 2. The abbreviation ―spp.‖ is used to denote all species of a higher taxon. 

 Wildlife Conservation 79 3. Other references to taxa higher than species are for the purposes of information or classification only. The common names included after th e scientific names of families are for reference only. They are intended to indicate the species within the family concerned that are included in this Schedule. In most cases this is not all of the species within the family. 4. Where there is conflict bet ween a scientific name and a local name and a common name in the use of the name of any species in this Schedule, the scientific term shall prevail. PART I (HUNTED SPECIES) Family Scientific Name Local Name Common Name CLASS MAMMALIA ORDER ARTIODACTYLA Cervidae Muntiacus muntjak Kijang Barking Deer Rusa unicolor Rusa Sambar Sambar Deer Suidae Sus scrofa Babi Hutan Wild Boar Tragulidae Tragulus javanicus Pelanduk Lesser Mousedeer Tragulus napu Napuh Large Mousedeer ORDER CARNIVORA Viverridae Paradoxurus hermaphroditus Musang Pulut Common Palm Civet ORDER CHIROPTERA Pteropodidae Pteropus hypomelanus Keluang Kecil Island Flying Fox Pteropus vampyrus Keluang Malayan Flying Fox ORDER PRIMATES Cercopithecidae Macaca fascicularis Kera Long-tailed Macaque 

80 Laws of Malaysia ACT 716 Macaca nemestrina Beruk Pig-tailed Macaque Presbytis melalophos Lotong Chenekah Mitred Leaf Monkey Trachypithecus cristatus Lotong Kelabu Silvered Leaf Monkey Trachypithecus obscurus Lotong Cengkong Dusky Leaf Monkey ORDER RODENTIA Hystricidae Atherurus macrourus Landak Nibong Brush-tailed Porcupine Hystrix brachyura Landak Raya Malayan Porcupine CLASS AVES ORDER COLUMBIFORMES Columbidae Chalcophaps indica Punai Tanah Emerald Dove Treron olax Punai Daun Little Green Pigeon Treron vernans Punai Gading Pink-necked Green Pigeon ORDER GALLIFORMES Phasianidae Coturnix chinensis Pikau Blue-breasted Quail Gallus gallus Ayam Hutan Red Junglefowl ORDER GRUIFORMES Rallidae Amaurornis phoenicurus Ruak-ruak White-breasted Waterhen Porzana cinerea Sintar Dahi Putih White-browed Crake ORDER PASSERIFORMES Sturnidae Gracula religiosa Tiong Mas Hill Myna Turdidae Copsychus malabaricus Murai Batu White-rumped Shama Zosteropidae Zosterops palpebrosus Mata Putih Timur, Kelicap Kunyit Oriental White-Eye Ploceidae Ploceus philippinus Ciak Tempua Baya Weaver ORDER PSITTACIFORMES 

 Wildlife Conservation 81 Psittacidae Loriculus galgulus Bayan Serindit Blue-crowned Hanging Parrot CLASS REPTILIA ORDER SQUAMATA SUBORDER LACERTILIA Agamidae Acanthosaura armata Sesumpah Tanduk Horned Tree Lizard Acanthosaura crucigera — Cross-bearing Tree Lizard Aphaniotis fusca Sesumpah Tanpa Telinga Earless Lizard Calotes emma emma — Forest Crested Lizard Calotes versicolor Sesumpah Kuning Garden Fence Lizard Draco blanfordii — Blanford’s Gliding Lizard Draco maculatus — Spotted Gliding Lizard Draco melanopogon — Black-bearded Gliding Lizard Draco quinquefasciatus Cicak Terbang Lima Jalur Five-banded Gliding Lizard Draco sumatranus Cicak Kobin Common Gliding Lizard Gonocephalus bellii — Bell’s Anglehead Lizard Gonocephalus chamaeleontinus — Chameleon Anglehead Lizard Gonocephalus doriae abbotti — Doria’s Anglehead Lizard Gonocephalus grandis Cicak Kepala Segi Besar Great Anglehead Lizard Gonocephalus liogaster — Comb Crested Forest Lizard Gonocephalus robinsonii — Robinson’s Anglehead Lizard Leiolepis belliana — Common Butterfly Lizard Leiolepis triploida — Malayan Butterfly Lizard 

82 Laws of Malaysia ACT 716 Gekkonidae Aeluroscalabotes felinus — Cat-eyed Gecko Cnemaspis nigridius — Dark Round-eyed Gecko Cyrtodactylus brevipalmatus — Web-footed Slender- toed Gecko Cyrtodactylus consobrinus — Peter’s Slender-toed Gecko Cyrtodactylus peguensis — Leopard Gecko Cyrtodactylus pulchellus Cicak Belang Banded Slender-toed Gecko Cyrtodactylus quadrivirgatus Cicak Jari Bengkok Marble Slender-toed Gecko Gekko gecko Tokay Tockay Gekko smithii — Smith’s Green-eyed Gecko Scincidae Sphenomorphus praesignis — Blotched Forest Skink Sphenomorphus stellatus — Starry Forest Skink Varanidae Varanus salvator Biawak Air Monitor Lizard SUBORDER SERPENTES Acrochordidae Acrochordus javanicus Ular Belalai Gajah Elephant-trunk Snake Colubridae Ahaetulla fasciolata — Speckle-headed Whip Snake Ahaetulla mycterizans Ular Cemeti Hijau Daun Malayan Green Whip Snake Ahaetulla nasuta — Long-nosed Whip Snake Ahaetulla prasina Ular Pucuk Oriental Whip Snake Amphiesma inas — Malayan Mountain Keelback Amphiesma petersii — Peter’s Keelback Amphiesma sanguineum — Smedley’s Keelback 

 Wildlife Conservation 83 Amphiesma sarawacense — Sarawak Mountain Keelback Aplopeltura boa — Blunt-headed Slug Snake Asthenodipsas laevis — Smooth Slug Snake Asthenodipsas vertebralis — Southern Mountain Slug Snake Boiga cyanea — Green Cat Snake Boiga cynodon Ular Kucing Taring Dog-toothed Cat Snake Boiga dendrophila melanota Ular Bakau Mangrove Snake Boiga drapiezii — White Spotted Cat Snake Boiga jaspidea — Jasper Cat Snake Boiga multomaculata — Marble Cat Snake Boiga nigriceps — Black-headed Cat Snake Cerberus rynchops Ular Air Kadut Bockadam Chrysopelea ornata Ular Pokok Emas Golden Tree Snake Chrysopelea paradisi Ular Sawa Burung Paradise Tree Snake Chrysopelea pelias Ular Pokok Belang Twin-barred Tree Snake Coelognathus flavolineata Ular Laju Ekor Hitam Common Malayan Racer Coelognathus radiata Ular Rusuk Kerbau Copperhead Racer Enhydris bocourti — Bocourt’s Water Snake Enhydris enhydris Ular Air Biasa Rainbow Water Snake Gonyosoma oxycephalum Ular Laju Ekor Merah Red-tailed Rat Snake Gonyosoma prasina — Green Tree Racer Homalopsis buccata Ular Air Tembam Puff-face Water Snake Liopeltis tricolor — Malayan Ringneck Lycodon effraenis — Scarce Wolf Snake 

84 Laws of Malaysia ACT 716 Lycodon subcinctus — Malayan Banded Wolf Snake Macrocalamus lateralis — Malayan Mountain Reed Snake Macrocalamus tweediei — Tweedie’s Mountain Reed Snake Macropisthodon rhodomelas — Blue-necked Keelback Pareas carinatus — Keeled Slug Snake Pareas margaritophorus — White-spotted Slug Snake Pseudoxenodon macrops — Big-eyed Mountain Keelback Ptyas carinata — Keeled Rat Snake Ptyas fusca — White-bellied Rat Snake Ptyas korros — Indo-chinese Rat Snake Ptyas mucosus Ular Tikus Biasa Common Rat Snake Rhabdophis chrysargos Ular Rabung Perut Bintik Speckle-bellied Keelback Rhabdophis conspicillatus — Red-bellied Keelback Rhabdophis subminiatus — Red-necked Keelback Sibynophis collaris — Common Blackhead Sibynophis melanocephalus — Malayan Many-toothed Snake Cylindrophiidae Cylindrophis ruffus Ular Kepala Dua Red-tailed Pipesnake Elapidae Bungarus candidus Ular Katam Tebu Malayan Krait Bungarus fasciatus Ular Katam Belang Banded Krait Bungarus flaviceps Ular Katam Kepala Merah Red Headed Krait Calliophis bivirgatus Ular Pantai Biru-biru Blue Long-glanded Coral Snake Calliophis gracilis Ular Pantai Bintik Spotted Coral Snake Calliophis intestinalis Ular Pantai Belang Banded Malayan Coral Snake 

 Wildlife Conservation 85 Calliophis maculiceps Ular Pantai Bintik Kecil Small-spotted Coral Snake Naja kaouthia Ular Senduk Monocellate Cobra Naja sumatrana Ular Senduk Sembur Equatorial Spitting Cobra Ophiophagus hannah Ular Tedung Selar King Cobra Pythonidae Python reticulatus Ular Sawa Reticulated Python Viperidae Calloselasma rhodostoma Ular Kapak Bodoh Malayan Pit Viper Cryptelytrops albolabris Ular Kapak Bibir Putih White-lipped Pit Viper Cryptelytrops purpureomaculatus Ular Kapak Bakau Mangrove Pit Viper Ovophis monticola convictus Ular Kapak Gunung Mountain Pit Viper Parias hageni Ular Kapak Hijau Indonesian Pit Viper Parias sumatranus Ular Kapak Sumatra Sumatran Pit Viper Popeia buniana Ular Kapak Tioman Tioman Pit Viper Popeia popeorum Ular Kapak Pope Pope’s Pit Viper Trimeresurus borneensis Ular Kapak Borneo Bornean Pit Viper Tropidolaemus wagleri Ular Kapak Tokong Wagler’s Pit Viper Xenopeltidae Xenopeltis unicolor Ular Pelangi Sunbeam Snake ORDER TESTUDINES Geoemydidae Batagur borneoensis Tuntung Sungai Painted Batagur Cuora amboinensis Kura-kura Katup Malayan Box Turtle Cyclemys dentata — Asian Leaf Turtle Malayemys macrocephala Jelebu Siput Besar Malayan Snail-eating Turtle Siebenrockiella crassicollis Kura-kura Kolam Black Marsh Turtle Testudinidae Manouria emys Baning Perang Asian Brown Tortoise Trionychidae Amyda cartilaginea Labi-labi Biasa Asiatic Softshell Turtle Dogania subplana Labi Melayu Malayan Softshell Turtle 

86 Laws of Malaysia ACT 716 CLASS AMPHIBA ORDER ANURA Bufonidae Ansonia leptopus — Brown Slender Toad Ansonia penangensis Kodok Sungai Pulau Pinang Penang Stream Toad Ansonia tiomanica Kodok Sungai Pulau Tioman Tioman Slender Toad Ingerophrynus kumquat — Peat Swamp Toad Dicroglossidae Limnonectes blythii Katak Demam Giant Asian River Frog Limnonectes malesianus Katak Paya Tanah Gambut Peat Swamp Frog Limnonectes tweediei — Tweedie’s Frog Limnonectes paramacrodon Katak Paya Kecil — Megophryidae Megophrys nasuta Katak Bertanduk Borneo Bornean Horned Frog Xenophrys aceras Katak Tanduk Kecil Perak Spadefoot Toad Xenophrys longipes — Long-legged Horned Frog Microhylidae Kalophrynus palmatissimus Katak Lekit Black-spotted Narrow- mouthed Frog Kalophrynus robinsoni — Robinson’s Grainy Frog Ranidae Amolops larutensis — Larut Cascade Frog Hylarana banjarana — Banjaran Frog Hylarana erythraea Katak Sawah Hijau Common Green Frog Hylarana picturata Katak Sungai Berbintik Spotted Stream Frog Hylarana raniceps Katak Anak Sungai Kesat White-lipped Frog Odorrana hosii Katak Batu Beracun Hose’s Rock Frog Rhacophoridae Nyctixalus pictus Katak Perang Berbintik Cinnamon Tree Frog Polypedates colletti — Collett’s Tree Frog 

 Wildlife Conservation 87 Rhacophorus nigropalmatus Katak Terbang Wallace Wallace’s Flying Frog Rhacophorus pardalis — Harlequin Tree Frog Rhacophorus prominanus — Malayan Flying Frog Rhacophorus reinwardtii — Reinwardt’s Tree Frog CLASS ARACHNIDA ORDER ARANEAE Liphisitiidae Liphistius spp. (except the species included in the Second Schedule) — Tube-Dwelling Spider Theraphosidae Chilobrachys spp. — — Coremiocnemis spp. — — Cyriopagopus spp. — — Haplopelma spp. — — Lampropelma violaceopes — Malay Blue Femur Lyrognathus robustus — Malaysian Stout Leg Phlogiellus spp. — — Phormingochilus spp. — — Poecilotheria spp. — — Selenocosmia spp. — — Tetragnathidae Nephila spp. — Golden Silk Orb- Weavers/Banana Spiders ORDER SCORPIONES Scorpionidae Heterometrus spp. — — CLASS INSECTA ORDER COLEOPTERA Buprestidae Catoxantha spp. — — Chrysochroa spp. — — 

88 Laws of Malaysia ACT 716 Demochroa spp. — — Megaloxantha spp. — — Mormolyce spp. — Violin Beetles Stigmodera armata — — Cerambycidae Anoplophora Birmanica — — Anoplophora elegans — — Anoplophora horsfieldi — — Anoplophora medenbachi — — Anoplophora Longehisuta — — Anoplophora zonatrix — — Apriona elsa — — Apriona marcusina — — Apriona rixator — — Arctolamia cruciatus — — Actolamia fasciata — — Actolamia villosa — — Batocera lombokiana — — Batocera rosenbergi — — Batocera sumbaensis — — Combe brianus — — Cyriopalus wallacei — — Cheliadonium venereum — — Glenea spp. — — Nemophas tricolor — — Lucanidae Lamprima spp. — Golden Stag Beetles 

 Wildlife Conservation 89 ORDER HEMIPTERA Cicadidae Ambragaeana ambra Riang-riang — Angamiana floridula Riang-riang Zamrut Hijau Green Jade Cicada Ayuthia spectabile Riang-riang Hantu Ghost Cicada Huechys sanguinea Riang-riang Merah Bersayap Putih White-winged Red Cicada Pomponia adusta Riang — Pomponia imperatoria — Malaysian Giant Cicada Fulgoridae Aphaena aurantia — Green-yellow Hornless Lanternfly Aphaena submaculata — Pinkish-orange Hornless Lanternfly Pyrops spp. — Lanternfly Scamandra sanguiflua — Lanternfly ORDER LEPIDOPTERA Danaidae Danaus affinis — Malay Tiger Idea hypermnestra — Tree Nymph Idea jasonia — Tree Nymph Idea leuconoe — Tree Nymph Idea lynceus — Tree Nymph Idea stolli — Tree Nymph Nymphalidae Agatasa calydonia — Glorios Begum Charaxes spp. — Rajah Butterfly Enispe intermedia — Intermediate Caliph Kallima paralekta — Indian Leaf Polyura eudamippus — Great Nawab Polyura schreiber — Blue Nawab Prothoe franck — Nyamphalid Butterfly 

90 Laws of Malaysia ACT 716 Zeuxidia aurelius — The Great Saturn Papilionidae Chilasa agestor — Mime Butterfly Graphium empedovana — Malayan Yellow Bottle Meandrusa payeni — — Lamproptera curius — White Dragontail Lamproptera meges — Green Dragontail Ornithoptera spp. — Birdwing Papilio mahadeva — Burmese Raven Papilio palinurus — Banded Peacock Trogonoptera brookiana — Rajah Brooke Troides spp. — Birdwing Butterflies ORDER MANTODEA Hymenopodidae Hymenopus coronatus Mentadak Orkid Orchid Mantis Mantidae Deroplatys spp. Mentadak Daun Dead Leaf Mantis Theopompa spp. — Asian Bark Mantis Paratoxodera cornicollis — Giant Malayan Stick Mantis Theopropus elegan — Asian Boxer Mantis Parhymenopus davidsoni — Yellow Flower Mantis ORDER ORTHOPTERA Gryllacrididae Gryllacris spp. Cengkerik Raksasa Giant Cricket ORDER PHASMATODEA Bacillidae Heteropteryx dilatata — Malayan Jungle Nymph Heteronemiidae Phaenopharos struthioneus Serangga Ranting Bersayap Merah Kecil Small Red-Winged Stick Insect Phasmatidae Tagesoidea nigrofasciata — Yellow Umbrella Stick Insect Eurycnema versirubra — — 

 Wildlife Conservation 91 Extatosoma tiaratum — Macleay’s Spectre Phyllidae Phyllium pulchrifolium Serangga Daun Walking Leaf Insect Phyllium giganteum Serangga Daun Besar Giant Leaf Insect PART 2 (OTHER PROTECTED WILDLIFE) Family Scientific Name Local Name Common Name CLASS MAMMALIA ORDER ARTIODACTYLA Bovidae Ammotragus lervia — Barbary Sheep Antilope cervicapra — Blackbuck Bubalus arnee — Wild Asiatic Buffalo Budorcas taxicolor — Takin Cephalophus dorsalis — Bay Duiker Cephalophus ogilbyi — Ogilby’s Duiker Cephalophus silvicultor — Yellow-backed Duiker Cephalophus zebra — Banded Duiker Damaliscus pygargus pygargus — Bontebok Gazella dama — Dama Gazelle Gazella dorcas — Dorcas Gazelle Hippotragus equinus — Roan Antelope Kobus leche — Leche Ovis ammon (except the subspecies included in the Second Schedule) — Argali Ovis canadensis — Bighorn Sheep Ovis vignei (except the subspecies included in the Second Schedule) — Red Sheep Philantomba monticola — Blue Duiker Saiga tatarica — Saiga Antelope 

92 Laws of Malaysia ACT 716 Tetracerus quadricornis — Four-horned Antelope Tragelaphus eurycerus — Lowland Bongo Tragelaphus spekii — Sitatunga Camelidae Lama guanicoe — Guanaco Cervidae Mazama temama cerasina — Guatemalan Red Brocket Odocoileus virginianus mayensis — Guatemalan White- Tailed Deer Pudu mephistophiles — Northern Pudu Hippopotamidae Hexaprotodon liberiensis — Pygmy Hippopotamus Hippopotamus amphibius Badak Air Common Hippopotamus Tayassuidae Pecari tajacu — Collared Peccary Tayassu pecari — White-lipped Peccary Tragulidae Hyemoschus aquaticus — Water Chevrotain ORDER CARNIVORA Canidae Canis aureus — Common Jackal Cerdocyon thous — Forest Fox Chrysocyon brachyurus — Maned Wolf Pseudalopex culpaeus — Andean Wolf Pseudalopex griseus — Argentine Grey Fox Pseudalopex gymnocercus — Azara’s Zorro Vulpes bengalensis — Bengal Fox Vulpes cana — Afghan Fox Vulpes zerda — Fennec Fox Eupleridae Cryptoprocta ferox — Fosa Eupleres goudotii — Malagasy Mongoose 

 Wildlife Conservation 93 Fossa fossana — Malagasy Civet Felidae Caracal aurata — African Golden Cat Felis spp. (except the species included in the Second Schedule) — Wild Cats Leopardus spp. (except the species included in the Second Schedule) — Wild cats Leptailurus serval — Serval Lynx spp. (except the species included in the Second Schedule) — Lynx Panthera leo (except the subspecies included in the Second Schedule) — Lion Prionailurus spp. (except the species included in the Second Schedule) — Wild Cats Puma concolor (except the subspecies included in the Second Schedule) — Puma Herpestidae Herpestes fuscus — Indian Brown Mongoose Herpestes smithii — Ruddy Mongoose Herpestes vitticollis — Stripe-necked Mongoose Hyaenidae Proteles cristata — Aardwolf Mephitidae Conepatus humboldtii — Humboldt’s Hog- nosed Skunk Mustelidae Eira barbara — Tayra Galictis vittata — Allamand’s Grison Lontra canadensis — River Otter Lutra spp. (except the species included in the Second Schedule) Memerang Otters Martes foina intermedia — Stone Marten 

94 Laws of Malaysia ACT 716 Mellivora capensis — Honey Badger Mustela altaica — Mountain Weasel Mustela kathiah — Yellow-bellied Weasel Mustela sibirica — Siberian Weasel Procyonidae Bassaricyon gabbii — Bushy-tailed Olingo Bassariscus sumichrasti — Cacomistle Nasua narica — Northern Coati Nasua nasua solitaria South Brazilian Coati Potos fl avus — Kinkajou Ursidae Ursus spp. (except the species included in the Second Schedule) Beruang Bears Viverridae Civettictis civetta — African Civet Paradoxurus jerdoni — Jerdon’s Palm Civet Viverra civettina — Malabar Civet Viverricula indica — Small Indian Civet ORDER CHIROPTERA Phyllostomidae Platyrrhinus lineatus — White-lined Bat Pteropodidae Acerodon spp. (except the species included in the Second Schedule) Kelawar Fruit Bats Pteropus spp. (except the species included in the Second Schedule) Keluang Flying Foxes ORDER DIPROTODONTIA Burramyidae Burramys parvus — Mountain Pygmy Possum Phalangeridae Phalanger spp. — Cuscus Spilocuscus spp. — Cuscus 

 Wildlife Conservation 95 ORDER INSECTIVORA Erinaceidae Hylomys suillus — Short-tailed Gymnure Soricidae Chimarrogale platycephala — Flat-headed Water Shrew Talpidae Euroscaptor micrura — Himalayan Mole ORDER PERISSODACTYLA Equidae Equus hemionus (except the subspecies included in the Second Schedule) — Asian Wild Ass Equus kiang — Kiang Equus zebra hartmannae — Hartmann’s Zebra ORDER PRIMATES Aotidae Aotus spp. — Night Monkeys Atelidae Alouatta belzebul — Rufous-handed Howler Monkey Alouatta caraya — Black Howler Monkey Alouatta spp. (except the species included in the Second Schedule) — Howler Monkeys Ateles spp. (except the species included in the Second Schedule) — Spider Monkeys Ateles geoffroyi (except the subspecies included in the Second Schedule) — — Lagothrix spp. — Woolly Monkeys Callitrichidae Cebuella pygmaea — Pygmy Marmoset Cebidae Callithrix spp. (except the species included in the Second Schedule) Marmoset Marmosets Cebus spp. — Capuchins 

96 Laws of Malaysia ACT 716 Saguinus fuscicollis — Spix’s Saddle- backed Tamarin Saguinus imperator — Emperor Tamarin Saguinus inustus — Mottle-faced Tamarin Saguinus labiatus — Geoffrey’s Moustached Tamarin Saguinus midas — Red-headed Tamarin Saguinus mystax — Spix’s Moustached Tamarin Saguinus nigricollis — Spix’s Black-mantle Tamarin Saguinus spp. (except the species included in the Second Schedule) Tamarin Tamarins Saimiri spp. (except the species included in the Second Schedule) — Squirrel Monkeys Cercopithecidae Allenopithecus nigroviridis — Allen’s Swamp Monkey Cercocebus torquatus — Red-capped Mangabey Cercocebus spp. (except the species included in the Second Schedule) — Mangabeys Cercopithecus ascanius — Black -cheeked Monkey Cercopithecus campbelli — Campbell’s Mona Monkey Cercopithecus cephus — Moustached Monkey Cercopithecus dryas — Dryas Monkey Cercopithecus erythrogaster — Red-bellied Monkey Cercopithecus erythrotis — Russet-eared Monkey Cercopithecus hamlyni — Owl-faced Monkey 

 Wildlife Conservation 97 Cercopithecus lhoesti — Hoest Mountain Monkey Cercopithecus mitis — White-throated Monkey Cercopithecus mona — Mona Monkey Cercopithecus neglectus — De Brazza’s Monkey Cercopithecus nictitans — Greater White- nosed Monkey Cercopithecus petaurista — Lesser White-nosed Monkey Cercopithecus pogonias — Crowned Monkey Cercopithecus wolfi — Wolf’s Monkey Cercopithecus spp. (except the species included in the Second Schedule) — Monkeys Chlorocebus spp. — Green Monkeys Colobus spp. — Colobus Erythrocebus patas — Patas Monkey Lophocebus spp. — Mangabeys Macaca assamensis — Himalayan Macaque Macaca cyclopis — Taiwan Macaque Macaca fuscata — Japanese Macaque Macaca maura — Moor Macaque Macaca mulatta — Rhesus Macaque Macaca nigra — Crested Macaque Macaca ochreata — Booted Macaque Macaca radiata — Madras Macaque Macaca tonkeana — Tonkean Black Ape Macaca spp. (except the species included in the Second Schedule) — Macaques 

98 Laws of Malaysia ACT 716 Miopithecus spp. — Southern Talapoin Papio hamadryas — Olive Babbon Papio spp. Babun Baboon Piliocolobus spp. (except the species included in the Second Schedule) — Red Colobus Presbytis frontata — White-fronted Leaf Monkey Presbytis hosei — Grey Langur Presbytis rubicunda — Maroon Leaf Monkey Presbytis thomasi — Thomas Langur Presbytis spp. (except the species included in the Second Schedule) — Leaf Monkeys Procolobus verus — Olive Colobus Theropithecus gelada — Gelada Babboon Trachypithecus spp. (except the species included in the Second Schedule) — Langur Galagonidae Euoticus elegantulus — Elegant Galago Euoticus pallidus — Northern Needle- clawed Bushbaby Galago spp. — Galago Otolemur spp. — Greater Galago Lorisidae Arctocebus aureus — Golden Potto Arctocebus calabarensis — Angwantibo Loris lydekkerianus — Grey Slender Loris Loris tardigradus — Slender Loris Perodicticus potto — Potto Pseudopotto martini — False Potto Pitheciidae Callicebus spp. — Titi Chiropotes spp. (except the species included in the Second Schedule) — Bearded Saki 

 Wildlife Conservation 99 Pithecia spp. — Saki Tarsiidae Tarsius spp. — Tarsiers ORDER RODENTIA Anomaluridae Anomalurops beecrofti — Beecroft’s Flying Squirrel Anomalurus derbianus — Lord’s Derby Flying Squirrel Anomalurus pelii — Pel’s Flying Squirrel Idiurus macrotis — Long-eared Flying Squirrel Cuniculidae Cuniculus paca — Paca Dasyproctidae Dasyprocta punctata — Central American Agouti Erethizontidae Sphiggurus mexicanus — Mexican Hairy Dwarf Porcupine Sphiggurus spinosus — Orange-spined Hairy Dwarf Porcupine Hystricidae Hystrix spp. Landak Porcupines Sciuridae Epixerus ebii — Western Palm Squirrel Marmota caudata — Long-tailed Marmot Marmota himalayana — Himalayan Marmot Ratufa spp. (except the species included in the Second Schedule) — Giant Squirrels Sciurus deppei — Deppe’s Squirrel ORDER SCANDENTIA Tupaiidae Anathana ellioti — Indian Treeshrew Dendrogale melanura — Bornean Smooth- tailed Treeshrew Dendrogale murina — Mainland Slender- tailed Treeshrew 

100 Laws of Malaysia ACT 716 Tupaia belangeri — Northern Treeshrew Tupaia dorsalis — Striped Treeshrew Tupaia gracilis — Slender Treeshrew Tupaia montana — Mountain Treeshrew Tupaia picta — Painted Treeshrew Tupaia splendidula — Ruddy Treeshrew Tupaia tana — Large Treeshrew Tupaia chrysogaster — Golden-bellied Treeshrew Tupaia javanica — Horsfield’s Treeshrew Tupaia longipes — Long-footed Treeshrew Tupaia moellendorffi — Calamian Treeshrew Tupaia nicobarica — Nicobar Treeshrew Tupaia palawanensis — Palawan Treeshrew Urogale everetti — Mindanao Treeshrew Ptilocercus lowii — Pen-tailed Treeshrew ORDER TACHYGLOSSA Tachyglossidae Zaglossus bruijnii — Long-nosed Echidnas ORDER TUBULIDENTATA Orycteropodidae Orycteropus afer — Aardvark ORDER XENARTHRA Bradypodidae Bradypus variegatus — Brown-Throated Sloth Dasypodidae Cabassous centralis — Northern Naked- Tailed Armadillo Cabassous tatouay — Greater Naked- Tailed Armadillo Chaetophractus nationi — Bolivian Hairy Armadillo 

 Wildlife Conservation 101 Megalonychidae Choloepus hoffmanni — Hoffmann’s Two- toed Sloth Myrmecopha-gidae Myrmecophaga tridactyla — Giant Anteater Tamandua mexicana — Northern Tamandua CLASS AVES ORDER ANSERIFORMES Anatidae Anas bernieri — Bernier’s Teal Anas formosa — Baikal Teal Anas capensis — Cape Teal Alopochen aegyptiacus — Egyptian Goose Aythya nyroca — Ferruginous Duck Branta ruficollis — Red-breasted Goose Coscoroba coscoroba — Coscoroba Swan Cygnus melanocoryphus — Black-necked Swan Cygnus columbianus — Jankwoski’s Swan Dendrocygna arborea — Black-billed Wood- Duck Dendrocygna autumnalis — Black-bellied Whistling Duck Dendrocygna bicolor — Fulvous Whistling Duck Dendrocygna viduata — White-faced Whistling Duck Nettapus auritus — African Pygmy Goose Oxyura leucocephala — White-headed Duck Plectropterus gambensis — Spur-winged Goose Pteronetta hartlaubii — Hartlaub’s Duck Sarkidiornis melanotos — Comb Duck ORDER APODIFORMES Trochilidae Abeillia abeillei — Emerald-chinned Hummingbird Adelomyia melanogenys — Speckled Hummingbird Aglaeactis spp. — — Aglaiocercus spp. — — 

102 Laws of Malaysia ACT 716 Amazilia spp. — — Androdona equatorialis — Tooth-billed Hummingbird Anopetia gounellei — Broad-tipped Hermit Hummingbird Anthocephala floriceps — Blossomcrown Hummingbird Anthracothorax spp. — — Archilochus alexandri — Black-chinned Hummingbird Archilochus colubris — Ruby-throated Hummingbird Atthis ellioti — Wine-throated Hummingbird Atthis heloisa — Bumblebee Hummingbird Augastes spp. — — Basilinna leucotis — White-eared Hummingbird Basilinna xantusii — Black-fronted Hummingbird Boissonneaua spp. — — Calliphlox spp. — — Calothorax lucifer — Lucifer Hummingbird Calothorax pulcher — Beautiful Hummingbird Calypte spp. — — Campylopterus spp. — — Chaetocercus spp. — — Chalcostigma spp. — — Chalybura spp. — — Chlorostilbon spp. — — 

 Wildlife Conservation 103 Chrysolampis mosquitus — Ruby-topaz Hummingbird Chrysuronia oenone — Golden-tailed Sapphire Clytolaema rubricauda — Brazilian Ruby Hummingbird Coeligena spp. — — Colibri spp. — — Cyanophaia bicolor — Blue-headed Hummingbird Cynanthus spp. — — Damophila julie — Violet-bellied Hummingbird Discosura spp. — — Doricha spp. — — Doryfera spp. — — Elvira spp. — — Ensifera ensifera — Sword-billed Hummingbird Eriocnemis spp. — — Eugenes fulgens — Magnificent Hummingbird Eulampis spp. — — Eupherusa spp. — — Eutoxeres spp. — — Eulidia yarrellii — Chilean Woodstar Hummingbird Florisuga spp. — — Glaucis spp. (except the species included in the Second Schedule) — — Goethalsia bella — Rufous-cheeked Hummingbird Goldmania violiceps — Violet-capped Hummingbird 

104 Laws of Malaysia ACT 716 Haplophaedia spp. — — Heliactin bilophus — Horned Sungem Hummingbird Heliangelus spp. — — Heliodoxa spp. — — Heliomaster spp. — — Heliothryx spp. — — Hylocharis spp. — — Hylonympha macrocerca — Scissor-tailed Hummingbird Klais guimeti — Violet-headed Hummingbird Lafresnaya lafresnayi — Mountain Velvetbreast Lampornis spp. — — Lamprolaima rhami — Garnet-throated Hummingbird Lepidopyga spp. — — Lesbia spp. — — Leucippus spp. — — Leucochloris albicollis — White-throated Hummingbird Loddigesia mirabilis — Marvellous Spatuletail Hummingbird Lophornis spp. — — Mellisuga spp. — — Metallura spp. — — Microchera albocoronata — Snowcap Hummingbird Microstilbon burmeisteri — Slender-tailed Woodstar Hummingbird 

 Wildlife Conservation 105 Myrmia micrura — Short-tailed Woodstar Hummingbird Myrtis spp. — — Ocreatus underwoodii — Booted Racket-tail Hummingbird Opisthoprora euryptera — Mountain Avocetbill Hummingbird Oreonympha nobilis — Bearded Mountaineer Hummingbird Oreotrochilus spp. — — Orthorhyncus cristatus — Antillean Crested Hummingbird Oxypogon guerinii — Bearded Helmetcrest Panterpe insignis — Fiery-throated Hummingbird Patagona gigas — Giant Hummingbird Phaethornis spp. — — Phlogophilus spp. — — Polyonymus caroli — Bronze-tailed Comet Hummingbird Polytmus spp. — — Pterophanes cyanopterus — Great Sapphirewing Ramphodon naevius — Saw-billed Hermit Hummingbird Ramphomicron spp. — — Rhodopis vesper — Oasis Hummingbird Sappho sparganura — Red-tailded Comet Hummingbird Selasphorus spp. — — Sephanoides spp. — — 

106 Laws of Malaysia ACT 716 Stellula calliope — Calliope Hummingbird Stephanoxis lalandi — Plover crest Sternoclyta cyanopectus — Violet-chested Hummingbird Taphrolesbia griseiventris — Grey-bellied Comet Hummingbird Thalurania spp. — — Thaumastura cora — Peruvian Sheartail Hummingbird Threnetes spp. — — Tilmatura dupontii — Sparkling-tailed Woodstar Hummingbird Topaza pella — Crimson Topaz Hummingbird Topaza pyra — Fiery Topaz Hummingbird Trochilus spp. — — Urochroa bougueri — White-tailed Hillstar Hummingbird Urosticte spp. — — ORDER CHARADRIIFORMES Burhinidae Burhinus bistriatus — Double-striped Thick-knee Dromadidae Dromas ardeola — Crab Plover Pedionomidae Pedionomus torquatus — Plains-wanderer ORDER CICONIIFORMES Ciconiidae Ciconia nigra — Black Stork Threskiornit-hidae Bostrychia hagedash — Hadada Ibis Bostrychia rara — Spot-breasted Ibis Eudocimus ruber — Scarlet Ibis Geronticus calvus — Southern Bald Ibis 

 Wildlife Conservation 107 Platalea leucorodia — Spoonbill ORDER COLUMBIFORMES Columbidae Gallicolumba luzonica — Luzon Bleeding- heart Pigeon Goura spp. — — Nesoenas mayeri — Pink Pigeon ORDER CUCULIFORMES Musophagidae Corythaeola cristata — Great Blue Turaco Crinifer piscator — Western Grey Plantain-eater Musophaga violacea — Violet Turaco Tauraco porphyeolophus — Purple-crested Turaco Tauraco spp. — — ORDER FALCONIFORMES Cathartidae Sarcoramphus papa — King Vulture ORDER GALLIFORMES Cracidae Crax alberti — Blue-billed Curassow Crax daubentoni — Yellow-knobbed Curassow Crax globulosa — Wattled Curassow Crax rubra — Great Curassow Ortalis vetula — Plain Chachalaca Pauxi pauxi — Helmeted Currasow Penelope purpurascens — Crested Guan Penelopina nigra — Highland Guan Phasianidae Arborophila orientalis — White-faced Patridge Agelastes meleagrides — White-breasted Guineafowl Cyrtonyx montezumae — Montezuma Quail 

108 Laws of Malaysia ACT 716 Francolinus ochropectus — Djibouti Francolin Francolinus swierstrai — Swierstra’s Francolin Gallus sonneratii — Grey Junglefowl Ithaginis cruentus — Blood Pheasant Meleagris ocellata — Ocellated Turkey Polyplectron bicalcaratum — Common Peacock Pheasant Polyplectron germaini — Germain’s Peacock Pheasant Tragopan satyra — Crimson Horned Pheasant ORDER GRUIFORMES Gruidae Balearica spp. — — Grus canadensis (except the subspecies included in the Second Schedule) — — Grus spp. (except the species included in the Second Schedule) — — Otididae Ardeotis spp. (except the species included in the Second Schedule) — — Eupodotis spp. — — Neotis spp. — — Otis tarda Jaguh Rumput Great Bustards Tetrax tetrax Jaguh Kecil Little Bustards Eupodotis melanogaster — Black-bellied Bustard Eupodotis ruficrista — Red-crested Bustard Eupodotis savilei — Savile’s Bustard Eupodotis hartlaubii — Hartlaub’s Bustard Sypheotides indicus — Lesser Florica Viduidae Anomalospiza imberbis — Cuckoo Finch Vidua chalybeata — Village Indigobird 

 Wildlife Conservation 109 Vidua interjecta — Long-tailed Paradise Whydah Vidua macroura — Pin-tailed Whydah Vidua paradisaea — Eastern Paradise Whydah Vidua raricola — Jambandu Indigobird Vidua togoensis — Togo Paradise Whydah Vidua wilsoni — Pale-winged Indigobird Vidua larvaticola — Baka Indigobird ORDER PASSERIFORMES Cotingidae Cephalopterus ornatus — Amazonian Umbrellabird Cephalopterus penduliger — Long-wattled Umbrellabird Rupicola spp. — — Emberizidae Gubernatrix cristata — Yellow Cardinal Paroaria capitata — Yellow-billed Cardinal Paroaria coronata — Red-crested Cardinal Tangara fastuosa — Seven-coloured Tanager Estrildidae Amandava formosa — Green Avadavat Amadina fasciata — Cut-throat Amandava subflava — Zebra Waxbill Estrilda astrild — Common Waxbill Estrilda caerulescens — Lavender Waxbill Estrilda melpoda — Orange-cheeked Waxbill Estrilda troglodytes — Black-rumped Waxbill Lagonosticta larvata — Black-throated Firefinch 

110 Laws of Malaysia ACT 716 Lagonosticta rara — Black-bellied Firefinch Lagonosticta rubricata — African Firefinch Lagonosticta rufopicta — Bar-breasted Firefinch Lagonosticta senegala — Red-billed Firefinch Mandingoa nitidula — Green-backed Twinspot Nesocharis capistrata — White-cheeked Oliveback Nigrita bicolor — Chestnut-breasted Negrofinch Nigrita canicapilla — Grey-headed Negrofinch Nigrita fusconota — White-breasted Negrofinch Ortygospiza atricollis — — Parmoptila woodhousei — Woodhouse’s Antpecker Pyrenestes ostrinus — Black-bellied Seedcracker Pytilia hypogrammica — Red-faced Pytilia Pytilia phoenicoptera — Red-winged Pytilia Poephila cincta — Black-throated Finch Spermophaga haematina — Western Bluebill Uraeginthus bengalus — Red-cheeked Cordonbleu Fringillidae Carduelis yarrellii — Yellow-faced Siskin Serinus gularis — Streaky-headed Seedeater Serinus leucopygius — White-rumped Seedeater Serinus mozambicus — Yellow-fronted Canary Serinus canaria — Island Canary 

 Wildlife Conservation 111 Muscicapidae Garrulax canorus Rimba Hawai Hwamei Monarchidae Terpsiphone bourbonnensis — Mascarene Paradise- Flycatcher Passeridae Passer griseus — Northern Grey- headed Sparrow Petronia dentata — Bush Petronia Plocepasser superciliosus — Chestnut-crowned Sparrow-weaver Ploceidae Amblyospiza albifrons — Grosbeak Weaver Bubalornis albirostris — White-billed Buffalo-weaver Euplectes afer — Yellow-crowned Bishop Euplectes ardens — Red-collared Widowbird Euplectes macroura — Yellow-shouldered Widowbird Euplectes hordeaceus — Black-winged Bishop Euplectes orix — Red Bishop Malimbus cassini — Black-throated Malimbe Malimbus malimbicus — Crested Malimbe Malimbus nitens — Gray’s Malimbe Malimbus rubricollis — Red-headed Malimbe Malimbus scutatus — Red-vented Malimbe Ploceus cucullatus — Village Weaver Ploceus heuglini — Heuglin’s Masked- weaver Ploceus melanocephalus — Black-headed Weaver Ploceus luteolus — Little Weaver Ploceus nigricollis — Black-necked Weaver Ploceus nigerrimus — Vieillot’s Black Weaver 

112 Laws of Malaysia ACT 716 Ploceus preussi — Preuss’s Weaver Ploceus pelzelni — Slender-billed Weaver Ploceus superciliosus — Compact Weaver Ploceus tricolor — Yellow-mantled Weaver Ploceus velatus — Southern Masked- weaver Quelea erythrops — Red-headed Quelea Sporopipes frontalis — Speckle-fronted Weaver Paradisaeidae Astrapia spp. — — Cicinnurus spp. — — Cnemophilus spp. — — Epimachus bruijnii — Pale-billed Sicklebill Epimachus spp. — — Loboparadisea sericea — Yellow-breasted Bird-of-paradise Lophorina superba — Superb Bird-of - paradise Lycocorax pyrrhopterus — Paradise-crow Macgregoria pulchra — Macgregor’s Bird- of-paradise Manucodia spp. — — Melampitta spp. — — Paradigalla spp. — — Paradisaea spp. — — Parotia spp. — — Pteridophora alberti — King of Saxony Bird-of-paradise Ptiloris spp. — — Seleucidis melanoleuca — Twelve-wired Bird- of–paradise Semioptera wallacii — Standardwing 

 Wildlife Conservation 113 Remizidae Pholidornis rushiae — Tit-hylia Sylviidae Acrocephalus rodericanus — Rodrigues Warbler Timaliidae Liocichla omeiensis — Emei Shan Liocichla ORDER PHOENICOPTERIFORMES Phoenicopte-ridae Phoenicoparrus andinus — Andean Flamingo Phoenicoparrus jamesi — Puna Flamingo Phoenicopterus spp. — — ORDER PELECANIFORMES Balaenicipitidae Balaeniceps rex — Shoebill ORDER PICIFORMES Capitonidae Semnornis ramphastinus — Toucan Barbet Ramphastidae Baillonius bailloni — Saffron Toucanet Pteroglossus aracari — Black-necked Aracari Pteroglossus castanotis — Chestnut-eared Aracari Pteroglossus viridis — Green Aracari Ramphastos dicolorus — Red-breasted Toucan Ramphastos sulfuratus — Keel-billed Toucan Ramphastos toco — Toco Toucan Ramphastos tucanus — Red-billed Toucan Ramphastos vitellinus — Channel-billed Toucan Selenidera maculirostris — Spot-billed Toucanet ORDER PSITTACIFORMES Cacatuidae Cacatua spp. (except the species included in the Second Schedule) — — Callocephalon fimbriatum — Gang-gang Cockatoo 

114 Laws of Malaysia ACT 716 Calyptorhynchus spp. — — Eolophus roseicapillus — Galah Loriidae Chalcopsitta spp. — — Charmosyna spp. — — Eos spp. (except the species included in the Second Schedule) — — Glossopsitta spp. — — Lorius spp. — — Neopsittacus musschenbroekii — Yellow-billed Lorikeet Neopsittacus pullicauda — Emerald Lorikeet Oreopsittacus arfaki — Plum-faced Lorikeet Phigys solitarius — Collared Lory Pseudeos fuscata — Dusky Lory Psitteuteles spp. — — Trichoglossus spp. — — Vini spp. (except the species included in the Second Schedule) — — Psittacidae Agapornis spp. (except the species included in the Fifth Schedule) — — Alisterus spp. — — Amazona spp. (except the species included in the Second Schedule) — Amazon Parrot Aprosmictus erythropterus — Red-winged Parrot Aprosmictus jonquillaceus — Olive-shouldered Parrot Ara spp. (except the species included in the Second Schedule) — — Aratinga spp. — — 

 Wildlife Conservation 115 Barnardius zonarius — Australian Ringneck Bolbopsittacus lunulatus — Guaiabero Bolborhynchus spp. — — Brotogeris spp. — — Cyanoliseus patagonus — Burrowing Parakeet Coracopsis spp. — — Cyanoliseus spp. — — Cyanoramphus spp. (except the species included in the Second Schedule) — — Cyclopsitta spp. (except the species included in the Second Schedule) — — Deroptyus accipitrinus — Hawk-headed Parrot Diopsittaca nobilis — Hahn’s Macaw Eclectus roratus — Electus Parrot Enicognathus spp. — — Forpus spp. — — Geoffroyus spp. — — Graydidascalus brachyurus — Short-tailed Parrot Hapalopsittaca spp. — — Lathamus discolor — Swift Parrot Leptosittaca branickii — Golden-plumed Conure Loriculus spp. — — Micropsitta spp. — — Myiopsitta spp. — — Nandayus nenday — Black-headed Conure Nannopsittaca dachilleae — Amazonian Parakeet Nannopsittaca panychlora — Tepui Parakeet Neophema spp. (except the species included in the Second Schedule) — — 

116 Laws of Malaysia ACT 716 Neopsephotus bourkii — Bourke’s Parrot Nestor meridionalis — Kaka Nestor notabilis — Kea Northiella haematogaster — Blue Bonnet Orthopsittaca manilata — Red-bellied Macaw Pionites leucogaster — White-bellied Parrot Pionites melanocephala — Black-headed Parrot Pionopsitta spp. (except the species included in the Second Schedule) — — Pionus spp. — — Platycercus spp. — — Poicephalus spp. — — Polytelis spp. — — Primolius auricollis — Yellow-collared Macaw Prioniturus spp. — — Prosopeia spp. — — Psephotus spp. (except the species included in the Second Schedule) — — Psilopsiagon aurifrons — Mountain Parakeet Psilopsiagon aymara — Grey-hooded Parakeet Psittacella spp. — — Psittacula krameri — Rose-ringed Parakeet Psittacula spp. (except the species included in the Second Schedule) — — Psittaculirostris spp. — — Psittacus erithacus — Grey Parrot Psittrichas fulgidus — Pesquet’s Parrot Purpureicephalus spurius — Red-capped Parrot 

 Wildlife Conservation 117 Pyrrhura spp. (except the species included in the Second Schedule) — — Tanygnathus spp. — — Touit spp. — — Triclaria malachitacea — Blue-bellied Parrot ORDER SPHENISCIFORMES Spheniscidae Spheniscus demersus — Africa Penguin ORDER STRUTHIONIFORMES Rheidae Rhea pennata pennata — Darwin’s Rhea Rhea americana — Common Rhea ORDER TINAMIFORMES Tinamidae Rhynchotus rufescens — Red-winged Tinamou ORDER TURNICIFORMES Turnicidae Turnix melanogaster — Black-breasted Buttonquail CLASS REPTILIA ORDER CROCODYLIA Alligatoridae Alligator mississippiensis — American Alligator Crocodylidae Crocodylus johnsoni — Australian Freshwater Crocodile Crocodylus novaeguineae — New Guinea Crocodile Paleosuchus palpebrosus — Cuvier’s Dwarf Caiman Paleosuchus trigonatus — Schneider’s Smoothfronted Caiman ORDER SQUAMATA SUBORDER LACERTILIA Agamidae Uromastyx spp. — — 

118 Laws of Malaysia ACT 716 Chamaeleonidae Bradypodion spp. — — Brookesia spp. (except the species included in the Second Schedule) — — Calumma spp. — — Chamaeleo spp. — — Furcifer spp. — — Cordylidae Cordylus campbelli — Campbell’s Girdled Lizard Cordylus coeruleopunctatus — Blue-spotted Girdled Lizard Cordylus cataphractus — Armadillo Girdled Lizard Cordylus cordylus — Girdled Lizard Cordylus giganteus — Giant Girdled Lizard Cordylus lawrenci — Lawrence’s Girdled Lizard Cordylus warreni — Warren’s Girdled Lizard Cordylus spp. — — Pseudocordylus spp. — Craig Lizard Dibamidae Dibamus booliati — — Dibamus tiomanensis — — Gekkonidae Cyrtodactylus serpensinsula — Serpent Island Gecko Hoplodactylus spp. — Sticky-toed Geckos Naultinus spp. — — Phelsuma spp. — — Uroplatus spp. — — Helodermatidae Heloderma suspectum — Gila Monster Heloderma spp. (except the species included in the Second Schedule) — — Iguanidae Amblyrhynchus cristatus — Galapagos Marine Iguana Conolophus spp. — — 

 Wildlife Conservation 119 Iguana spp. — — Phrynosoma coronatum — Coast Horned Lizard Lacertidae Podarcis lilfordi — Balearic Lizard Podarcis pityusensis — Ibiza Wall Lizard Scincidae Corucia zebrata — Prehensile-tailed Skink Aspidoscelis hyperythra — Orange-Throated Whiptail Teiidae Crocodilurus amazonicus — Crocodile Tegu Dracaena guianensis — Guianan Caiman Lizard Dracaena paraguayensis — Paraguyan Caiman Lizard Dracaena spp. — — Tupinambis rufescens — Argentine Tegu Tupinambis teguixin — Common Tegu Tupinambis spp. — — Varanidae Varanus acanthurus — Spiny-tailed Pygmy Monitor Varanus brevicauda — Short-tailed Pygmy Monitor Varanus caudolineatus — Streaked-tailed Monitor Varanus eremius — Desert Pygmy Monitor Varanusexanthematicus — African Savanna Monitor Varanus giganteus — Perentie Varanus gilleni — Pygmy Mulga Monitor Varanus glauerti — Long-tailed Rock Monitor Varanus gouldii — Gould’s Monitor Varanus grayi — Gray’s Monitor Varanus indicus — Pacific Monitor 

120 Laws of Malaysia ACT 716 Varanus mertensi — Merten’s Water Monitor Varamus mitchelli — Mitchell’s Water Monitor Varanus niloticus — Nile Monitor Varanus prasinus — Emerald Monitor Varanus primordius — Ridge-tailed Monitor Varanus salvadorii — Papuan Monitor Varanus semiremex — Mangrove Monitor Varanus spenceri — Spencer’s Monitor Varanus storri — Dwarf Monitor Varanus timorensis — Timor Tree Monitor Varanus tristis — Freckled Monitor Varanus varius — Lace Monitor Varanus spp. (except the species included in the Second Schedule) — — Xenosauridae Shinisaurus crocodilurus — Chinese Crocodile Lizard SUBORDER SERPENTES Boidae Boa spp. (except the subspecies included in the Second Schedule) Ular Boa Boas Calabaria reinhardtii — Calabar’s Burrowing Python Candoia aspera — Papuan Ground Boa Candoia bibroni — Pacific Boa Candoia carinata — Solomons Tree Boa Candoia spp. — — Charina bottae — Rubber Boa Charina spp. — — Corallus annulatus — Annulated Tree Boa Corallus caninus — Emerald Tree Boa Corallus hortulanus — Garden Tree Boa 

 Wildlife Conservation 121 Corallus spp. — — Epicrates angulifer — Cuban Tree Boa Epicrates cenchria — Rainbow Boa Epicrates chrysogaster — Bahama Island Boa Epicrates exsul — Abacoa Islands Boa Epicrates fordii — Ford’s Boa Epicrates gracilis — Haitian Vine Boa Epicrates striatus — Fischer’s Tree Boa Epicrates spp. (except the species included in the Second Schedule) — — Eryx jaculus — Sand Boa Eryx jayakari — Jayakar’s Sand Boa Eryx johnii — Blunt-tailed Sand Bao Eryx tataricus — Tartary Sand Boa Eryx spp. — — Eunectes murinus — Anaconda Eunectes notaeus — Yellow Anaconda Eunectes spp. — — Gongylophis colubrinus — Kenya Sand Boa Gongylophis conicus — Indian Sand Boa Gongylophis muelleri — Muller’s Sand Boa Gongylophis spp. — — Lichanura trivirgata — Rosy Boa Lichanura spp. — — Pythonidae Antaresia childreni — Children’s Rock Python Antaresia perthensis — Pygmy Python Antaresia stimsoni — Stimson’s Python Antaresia spp. — — 

122 Laws of Malaysia ACT 716 Apodora papuana — Papuan Python Aspidites melanocephalus — Black-headed Python Aspidites ramsayi — Woma Python Aspidites spp. — — Bothrochilus boa — Barred Python Leiopython albertisii — White-lipped Python Liasis spp. — — Morelia albertisii — D’albertis Python Morelia amethistina — Amethyst Python Morelia boa — Barred Python Morelia boeleni — Boelen’s Python Morelia carinata — Rough-scaled Python Morelia mackloti — Water Python Morelia olivacea — Olive Rock Python Morelia papuana — Papua Python Morelia spilota — Carpet Python Morelia viridis — Green Tree Python Morelia spp. — — Python anchietae — Angolan Python Python molurus bivittatus — Burmese Python Python curtus Ular Sawa Darah Blood Python Python regius — Ball Python Python natalensis — Lesser African Rock Python Python sebae — African Rock Python Python timoriensis — Timor Python Python spp. (except the species and subspecies included in the Second Schedule) — — 

 Wildlife Conservation 123 Colubridae Atretium schistosum — Olivaceous Keelback Clelia clelia — Mussurana Cyclagras gigas — Brazilian Smooth Snake Elachistodon westermanni — Indian Egg-eater Elaphe porphyracea — Red Mountain Racer Hoplocephalus bungaroides Ular Kepala Lebar Broad-headed Snake Xenochrophis piscator — Asiatic Water Snake Elapidae Micrurus diastema Ular Pantai Atlantik Atlantic Coral Snake Micrurus nigrocinctus Ular Pantai Belang Hitam Black-banded Coral Snake Naja atra Ular Senduk Cina Chinese Cobra Naja mandalayensis Ular Senduk Cobra Naja naja Ular Senduk Asia Common Cobra Naja oxiana Ular Senduk Asia Tengah Central Asian Cobra Naja philippinensis — North Philippine Spitting Cobra Naja sagittifera Ular Senduk Andaman Andaman Cobra Naja samarensis Ular Senduk Peter Peter’s Cobra Naja siamensis Ular Senduk Indochina Indochinese Cobra Naja sputatrix Ular Senduk Indonesia Indonesian Cobra Loxocemidae Loxocemus bicolor — Mexican Burrowing Python Tropidophiidae Exilibao placata — Oaxacan Dwarf Boa Trachyboa boulengeri — Boulenger’s Boa Trachyboa spp. — — Tropidophis spp. — — 

124 Laws of Malaysia ACT 716 Ungaliophis panamensis — Central American Dwarf Boa Ungaliophis spp. — — Viperidae Agkistrodon bilineatus — Mexican Copperhead Atropoides nummifer — Jumping Viper Bothriechis schlegelii — Horned Palm Viper Bothrops asper — Barba Amarilla Crotalus durissus — Cascabel Pit Viper Daboia russelii Ular Kapak Russell Russell’s Viper Vipera wagneri Ular Kapak Wagner Wagner’s Viper Porthidium nasutum — Horned Hog-Nosed Pit Viper Trimeresurus puniceus Ular Kapak Hidung Pipih Flat-nosed Pit Viper ORDER TESTUDINES Carettochelyidae Carettochelys insculpta Labi-labi Muncung Babi Pig-nosed Turtle Chelydridae Macrochelys temminckii — Alligator Snapping Turtle Emydidae Graptemys spp. (except the species included in the Second Schedule) — — Glyptemys insculpta — Wood turtle Terrapene spp. (except the species included in the Second Schedule) — — Geoemydidae Cuora spp. (except the species included in the Second Schedule) — — Geoemyda spengleri — Black-breasted HillTurtle Heosemys grandis Kura Besar Giant Asian Pond Turtle Mauremys iversoni — Fujian Pond Turtle Mauremys megalocephala — Chinese Broad- headed Pond Turtle 

 Wildlife Conservation 125 Mauremys mutica — Yellow Pond Turtle Mauremys nigricans — Red-necked Pond Turtle Mauremys pritchardi — Pritchard’s Pond Turtle Mauremys sinensis — Chinese Stripe- necked Turtle Sacalia bealei — Beal’s Eyed Turtle Sacalia pseudocellata — Chinese False-eyed Turtle Sacalia quadriocellata — Four-eyed Turtle Pangshura spp. (except the species included in the Second Schedule) — — Platysternidae Platysternon megacephalum — Big-headed Turtle Podocnemididae Peltocephalus dumerilianus — Big-headed Amazon River Turtle Podocnemis spp. — — Testudinidae Chersina angulata — Angulated Tortoise Geochelone spp. (except the species included in the Second Schedule) — — Gopherus spp. (except the species included in the Second Schedule) — — Homopus spp. (except the species included in the Second Schedule) — — Indotestudo spp. (except the species included in the Second Schedule) — — Kinixys spp. — — Malacochersus tornieri — African Pancake Tortoise Manouria spp. (except the species included in the Second Schedule) — — Psammobates spp. (except the species included in — — 

126 Laws of Malaysia ACT 716 the Second Schedule) Testudo spp. (except the species included in the Second Schedule) — — Trionychidae Chitra spp. (except the species included in the Second Schedule) — — Lissemys punctata — Spotted Turtle Lissemys scutata — Burmese Flapshell Turtle Palea steindachneri — Wattle-necked Softshell Turtle Pelochelys spp. (except the species included in the Second Schedule) — — Pelodiscus axenaria — Chinese Softshell Turtle Pelodiscus maackii — — Pelodiscus parviformis — — CLASS AMPHIBIA ORDER ANURA Dendrobatidae Dendrobates spp. — — Epipedobates spp. — — Minyobates spp. — — Phyllobates spp. — — Hylidae Agalychnis spp. — — Mantellidae Mantella spp. — — Microhylidae Scaphiophryne gottlebei — Red Rain Frog Myobatrachidae Rheobatrachus spp. — — Ranidae Euphlyctis hexadactylus Katak Kolam Hijau Green Pond Frog Hoplobatrachus tigerinus Katak Harimau Tiger Frog ORDER CAUDATA Ambystomidae Ambystoma dumerilii — Lake Patzcuaro Salamander 

 Wildlife Conservation 127 Ambystoma mexicanum — Axolotl CLASS ARACHNIDA ORDER ARANEAE Theraphosidae Aphonopelma albiceps — Amula Red Rump Tarantula Aphonopelma pallidum — Chihuahua Rose- grey Tarantulla Avicularia avicularia — Pinktoe Tarantula Brachypelma spp. — — CLASS INSECTA ORDER COLEOPTERA Lucanidae Colophon spp. — Cape Stag Beetles ORDER LEPIDOPTERA Papilionidae Atrophaneura jophon — Sri Lanka Rose Atrophaneura pandiyana — Malabar Rose Bhutanitis spp. — Bhutan Swallowtails Parnassius apollo — Apollo Butterfly Teinopalpus spp. — Kaiserihinds Trogonoptera spp. — Birdwing Butterflies KELAS GASTROPODA Camaenidae Papustyla pulcherrima — Emerald Green Snail 

128 Laws of Malaysia ACT 716 SECOND SCHEDULE [section 3] TOTALLY PROTECTED WILDLIFE Interpretation of the Second Schedule 1. Species included in this Schedule are referred to— (a) by the name of the species; or (b) as being all of the species included in a higher taxon or designated part thereof. 2. The abbreviation ―spp.‖ is used to denote all species of a higher taxon. 3. Other references to taxa higher than species are for the purposes of information or classification only. The common names included after the scientific names of families are for reference only. They are inten ded to indicate the species within the family concerned that are included in this Schedule. In most cases this is not all of the species within the family. 4. Where there is conflict between a scientific name and a local name and a common name in the use of the name of any species in this Schedule, the scientific name shall prevail. Family Scientific Name Local Name Common Name CLASS MAMMALIA ORDER ARTIODACTYLA Antilocapridae Antilocapra americana — Mexican Pronghorn Bovidae Addax nasomaculatus — Addax Bison bison — American Bison Bos gaurus Seladang Malayan Gaur Bos javanicus Banteng Banteng Bos mutus — Wild Yak Bos sauveli — Kouprey Bubalus depressicornis — Anoa Bubalus mindorensis — Tamaraw 

 Wildlife Conservation 129 Bubalus quarlesi — Mountain Anoa Capra falconeri — Markhor Capricornis spp. — Serow Capricornis sumatraensis Kambing Gurun Serow Cephalophus jentinki — Jentink’s Duiker Gazella cuvieri — Cuvier’s Gazelle Gazella leptoceros — Sand Gazelle Hippotragus niger variani — Giant Sable Antelope Naemorhedus baileyi — Red Goral Naemorhedus caudatus — Chinese Goral Naemorhedus goral — Himalayan Goral Naemorhedus griseus — South China Goral Nanger dama — Addra Gazelle Oryx dammah — Sahara Oryx Oryx leucoryx — Arabian Oryx Ovis ammon hodgsonii — Great Tibetan Sheep Ovis ammon nigrimontana — Asian Wild Sheep Ovis orientalis ophion — Cyprian Wild Sheep Ovis vignei vignei — Ladakh Urial Pantholops hodgsonii — Chiru Pseudoryx nghetinhensis — Saola Rupicapra pyrenaica Ornate — Pyrenean Chamois Cervidae Axis calamianensis — Calamian Deer Axis kuhlii — Bawean Deer Axis porcinus annamiticus — Ganges Hog Deer Blastocerus dichotomus — Marsh Deer Dama mesopotamica — Persian Fallow Deer 

130 Laws of Malaysia ACT 716 Hippocamelus spp. — Huemuls Muntiacus crinifrons — Black Muntjac Muntiacus vuquangensis — Giant Muntjac Ozotoceros bezoarticus — Pampas Deer Pudu puda — Chilean Pudu Rucervus duvaucelii — Swamp Deer Rucervus eldii — Brow-antlered Deer Camelidae Vicugna vicugna — Vicugna Moschidae Moschus spp. Rusa Kasturi Musk Deer Suidae Babyrousa babyrussa Babirusa Babiroussa Babyrousa celebensis — North Sulawesi Babirusa Babyrousa togeanensis — Malenge Babirusa Sus barbatus Babi Bodoh Bearded Pig Sus salvanius — Pygmy Hog Tayassuidae Catagonus wagneri — Chacoan Peccary ORDER CARNIVORA Ailuridae Ailurus fulgens — Lesser Panda Canidae Canis lupus Serigala Common Wolf Cuon alpinus Anjing Hutan Asiatic Wild Dog Speothos venaticus — Bush Dog Felidae Acinonyx jubatus — Cheetah Caracal caracal — Caracal Catopuma badia — Bay Cat Catopuma temminckii Kucing Tulap Asian Golden Cat Felis nigripes — Black-footed Cat Leopardus geoffroyi — Geoffroy’s Cat Leopardus jacobita — Andean Cat Leopardus pardalis — Ocelot Leopardus tigrinus — Little Spotted Cat 

 Wildlife Conservation 131 Leopardus wiedii — Margay Leopardus pardinus — Iberian Lynx Lynx rufus — Bobcat Neofelis diardi — Bornean clouded leopard Neofelis nebulosa Harimau Dahan Clouded Leopard Panthera leo persica — Asiatic Lion Panthera onca Jaguar Jaguar Panthera pardus Harimau Kumbang Leopard Panthera tigris Harimau Belang Tiger Pardofelis marmorata Kucing Dahan Marbled Cat Prionailurus bengalensis Kucing Batu Leopard Cat Prionailurus planiceps Kucing Hutan Flat-headed Cat Prionailurus rubiginosus — Rusty-spotted Cat Prionailurus viverrinus — Fishing Cat Puma concolor coryi — Florida Cougar Puma concolor costaricensis — Central American Puma Puma concolor cougar — Eastern Cougar Puma yagouaroundi — Eyra Cat Uncia uncia — Snow Leopard Herpestidae Herpestes brachyurus Bambun Ekor Pendek Short-tailed Mongoose Herpestes edwardsii Bambun Kelabu Indian Grey Mongoose Herpestes urva Bambun, Cherpelai Ketam Crab-eating Mongoose Mustelidae Aonyx capensis microdon — Cameroon Clawless Otter Aonyx cinerea Memerang Kecil Small-clawed Otter Enhydra lutris nereis — California Sea Otter Lontra felina — Marine Otter Lontra longicaudis — Long-tailed Otter 

132 Laws of Malaysia ACT 716 Lontra provocax — Southern River Otter Lutra lutra Memerang Utara Common Otter Lutra nippon — Japanese River Otter Lutra sumatrana Memerang Hidung Berbulu Hairy-nosed Otter Lutrogale perspicillata Memerang Licin Smooth Otter Martes flavigula Mengkira Yellow-throated Marten Martes gwatkinsii — Nilgiri Marten Mustela nigripes — Black-footed Ferret Mustela nudipes Pulasan Tanah Malay Weasel Pteronura brasiliensis — Giant Otter Ursidae Ailuropoda melanoleuca Panda Giant Panda Helarctos malayanus Beruang Matahari Malayan Sun Bear Melursus ursinus — Sloth Bear Tremarctos ornatus — Andean Bear Ursus arctos Beruang Perang Brown Bear Ursus arctos isabellinus — Himalayan Brown Bear Ursus maritimus Beruang Kutub Polar Bear Ursus thibetanus — Asian Black Bear Viverridae Arctictis binturong Binturong Binturong Arctogalidia trivirgata Musang Akar Small-toothed Palm Civet Cynogale bennettii Musang Memerang Otter civet Hemigalus derbyanus Musang Belang Banded Civet Paguma larvata Musang Lamri Masked Palm Civet Prionodon linsang Linsang Banded Linsang Prionodon pardicolor Linsang Berbintik Spotted Linsang Viverra megaspila Musang Titik Besar Large Spotted Civet Viverra tangalunga Musang Tenggalong Malayan Civet 

 Wildlife Conservation 133 Viverra zibetha Musang Jebat Large Indian Civet Viverricula malaccensis Musang Bulan Little Civet ORDER CHIROPTERA Pteropodidae Acerodon jubatus — Golden-capped Fruit Bat Pteropus insularis — Chuuk Flying-fox Pteropus loochoensis — Japanese Flying-fox Pteropus mariannus — Marianas Flying-fox Pteropus molossinus — Rodrigues Flying-fox Pteropus pelewensis — Palau Flying-fox Pteropus pilosus — Large Palau Flying- fox Pteropus samoensis — Samoan Flying-fox Pteropus tonganus — Insular Flying-fox Pteropus ualanus — Kosrae Flying-fox Pteropus yapensis — Yap Flying-fox ORDER DASYUROMORPHIA Dasyuridae Sminthopsis longicaudata — Long-tailed Dunnart Sminthopsis psammophila — Sandhill Dunnart ORDER DERMOPTERA Cynocephalidae Galeopterus variegatus Kubung, Kujul, Kubung Pelanduk Sunda Flying Lemur ORDER DIPROTODONTIA Macropodidae Dendrolagus spp. — Tree Kangaroos Lagorchestes hirsutus — Rufous Hare-wallaby Lagostrophus fasciatus — Banded Hare-wallaby Onychogalea fraenata — Bridled Nailtail Wallaby Onychogalea lunata — Crescent Nailtail Wallaby Potoroidae Bettongia spp. — Rat-kangaroos 

134 Laws of Malaysia ACT 716 Caloprymnus campestris — Desert Rat-kangaroo Vombatidae Lasiorhinus krefftii — Northern Hairy-nosed Wombat ORDER INSECTIVORA Soricidae Chimarrogale hantu — Malayan Water Shrew ORDER LAGOMORPHA Leporidae Caprolagus hispidus — Assam Rabbit Romerolagus diazi — Volcano Rabbit ORDER PERAMELEMORPHIA Peramelidae Perameles bougainville — Barred Bandicoot Thylacomyidae Macrotis lagotis — Bilby Macrotis leucura — Lesser Bilby ORDER PERISSODACTYLA Equidae Equus africanus — African Ass Equus grevyi — Grevy’s Zebra Equus hemionus hemionus — Mongolian Wild Ass Equus hemionus khur — Indian Wild Ass Equus przewalskii — Mongolian Wild Horse Equus zebra zebra — Cape Mountain Zebra Rhinocerotidae Ceratotherium simum cottoni — Northern Square- lipped Rhinoceros Ceratotherium simum simum — Southern Square- lipped Rhinoceros Dicerorhinus Sumatrensis Badak Sumatera Sumatran Rhinoceros Diceros bicornis — Black Rhinoceros Rhinoceros sondaicus Badak Raya Javan Rhinoceros Rhinoceros unicornis — Great Indian Rhinoceros Tapiridae Tapirus bairdii — Baird’s Tapir Tapirus indicus Badak Cipan, Tapir Malayan Tapir 

 Wildlife Conservation 135 Tapirus pinchaque — Andean Tapir Tapirus terrestris — Lowland Tapir ORDER PHOLIDOTA Manidae Manis javanica Tenggiling Pangolin Manis spp. Tenggiling Pangolins ORDER PRIMATES Atelidae Alouatta coibensis — Coiba Island Howling Monkey Alouatta palliata — Mantled Howling Monkey Alouatta pigra — Guatemalan Howling Monkey Ateles geoffroyi frontatus — Black-browed Spider Monkey Ateles geoffroyi panamensis — Panama Spider Monkey Brachyteles arachnoides — Woolly Spider Monkey Oreonax flavicauda — Yellow-tailed Woolly Monkey Cebidae Callimico goeldii — Goeldi’s Marmoset Callithrix aurita — Buffy-tufted-ear Marmoset Callithrix flaviceps — Buffy-headed Marmoset Leontopithecus spp. — Lion tamarins Saguinus bicolor — Bare-faced Tamarin Saguinus geoffroyi — Cotton-top Marmoset Saguinus leucopus — White-footed Tamarin Saguinus martinsi — Martin’s Bare-faced Tamarin Saguinus oedipus — Cotton-headed Tamarin Saimiri oerstedii — Central American Squirrel Monkey 

136 Laws of Malaysia ACT 716 Cercopithecidae Cercocebus galeritus — Tana River Mangabey Cercopithecus diana — Diana Guenon Cercopithecus roloway — Roloway Monkey Macaca arctoides Beruk Kentoi Stump-tailed Macaque Macaca silenus — Lion-tailed Macaque Mandrillus leucophaeus — Drill Mandrillus sphinx — Mandrill Nasalis larvatus Monyet Belanda Proboscis Monkey Nasalis spp. — Long-nosed Monkey Piliocolobus kirkii — Kirk’s Colobus Piliocolobus rufomitratus — Tana River Red Colobus Presbytis potenziani — Long-tailed Langur Pygathrix spp. — Snub-nosed Monkeys Rhinopithecus avunculus — Tonkin Snub-nosed Monkeys Rhinopithecus bieti — Yunnan Snub-nosed Monkey Rhinopithecus brelichi — Brelich’s Snub-nosed Monkey Semnopithecus spp. — Grey Langur Trachypithecus geei — Golden Langur Trachypithecus pileatus — Bonneted Langur Trachypithecus shortridgei — Shortridge’s Langur Cheirogaleidae Allocebus trichotis — Hairy-eared Dwarf Lemur Cheirogaleus spp. — Dwarf Lemur Microcebus spp. — Mouse Lemur Mirza coquereli — Coquerel’s Dwarf Lemur Phaner spp. — Fork-marked Lemur 

 Wildlife Conservation 137 Daubentoniidae Daubentonia madagascariensis — Aye-aye Hominidae Gorilla beringei Gorila Eastern Gorilla Gorilla gorilla Gorila Gorilla Pan spp. Cimpanzi Chimpanzees Pongo abelii Orang Utan Sumatra Sumatran Orang Utan Pongo pygmaeus Orang Utan Borneo Bornean Orang Utan Hylobatidae Hoolock hoolock — Hoolock Gibbon Hylobates agilis Ungka Tangan Hitam Agile Gibbon Hylobates lar Ungka Tangan Putih White Handed Gibbon Hylobates muelleri Ungka Borneo Bornean Gibbon Hylobates spp. Ungka Gibbons Nomascus spp. — Gibbons Symphalangus syndactylus Siamang Siamang Indriidae Avahi laniger — Eastern Woolly Lemur Avahi occidentalis — Western Avahi Avahi unicolor — Unicoloured Avahi Indri indri — Indris Propithecus spp. — Sifakas Lemuridae Eulemur spp. — Lemurs Hapalemur spp. — Lemurs Lemur catta — Ring-tailed Lemur Lepilemur spp. — Sportive Lemurs Prolemur simus — Greater Bamboo Lemur Varecia rubra — Red Ruffed Lemur Varecia variegata — Ruffed Lemur Lorisidae Nycticebus bengalensis — Bengal Slow Loris 

138 Laws of Malaysia ACT 716 Nycticebus coucang Kongkang Slow Loris Nycticebus pygmaeus — Pygmy Slow Loris Nycticebus spp. — Slow Loris Pitheciidae Cacajao spp. — Uakaris Chiropotes albinasus — White-nosed Bearded Saki ORDER PROBOSCIDAE Elephantidae Elephas maximus Gajah Asia Asian Elephant Loxodonta africana Gajah Afrika African Elephant ORDER RODENTIA Chinchillidae Chinchilla spp. — Chinchillas Heteromyidae Dipodomys elator — Texas Kangaroo Rat Dipodomys gravipes — San Quintin Kangaroo Rat Dipodomys ingens — Giant Kangaroo Rat Dipodomys insularis — San Jose Island Kangaroo Rat Dipodomys margaritae — Margarita Island Kangaroo Rat Dipodomys nitratoides — San Joaquin Kangaroo Rat Dipodomys spectabilis — Banner-tailed Kangaroo Rat Dipodomys stephensi — Stephen’s Kangaroo Rat Hystricidae Trichys fasciculata Landak Padi Long-tailed Porcupine Muridae Leporillus conditor — Greater Stick-nest Rat Pseudomys fieldi praeconis — Alice Springs Mouse Xeromys myoides — False Swamp Rat Zyzomys pedunculatus — Central Rock Rat Sciuridae Aeromys tephromelas Tupai Terbang Hitam Large Black Flying Squirrel 

 Wildlife Conservation 139 Callosciurus prevostii Tupai Gading Prevost’s Squirrel Cynomys mexicanus — Prairie Dog Hylopetes lepidus Tupai Terbang Pipi Kelabu Grey-cheeked Flying Squirrel Hylopetes spadiceus Tupai Terbang Pipi Merah Red-cheeked Flying Squirrel Iomys horsfieldii Tupai Terbang Ekor Merah Horsfield’s Flying Squirrel Petaurillus kinlochii Tupai Terbang Terkecil Selangor Pygmy Flying Squirrel Petaurista elegans Tupai Terbang Bintang Spotted Giant Flying Squirrel Petaurista petaurista Tupai Terbang Merah Red Giant Flying Squirrel Petinomys genibarbis Tupai Terbang Berjambang Whiskered Flying Squirrel Petinomys setosus Tupai Terbang Dada Putih Temminck’s Flying Squirrel Petinomys vordermanni Tupai Terbang Kecil Vordermann’s Flying Squirrel Pteromyscus pulverulentus Tupai Terbang Kotor Smoky Flying Squirrel Ratufa affinis Tupai Kerawak Putih-Kuning Cream-coloured Giant Squirrel Ratufa bicolor Tupai Kerawak Hitam Black Giant Squirrel ORDER SCANDENTIA Tupaiidae Tupaia glis Tupai Muncung Besar Common Treeshrew Tupaia minor Tupai Muncung Akar Pygmy Treeshrew ORDER XENARTHRA Dasypodidae Priodontes maximus — Giant Armadillo CLASS AVES ORDER ANSERIFORMES Anatidae Anas aucklandica — Brown Teal 

140 Laws of Malaysia ACT 716 Anas laysanensis — Laysan Duck Anas oustaleti — Marianas Island Duck Anas acuta Itik Muara Northern Pintail Anas crecca Itik Eropah Common Teal Anas penelope Itik Eurasia Eurasian Wigeon Anas querquedula Itik Gargany Garganey Anas clypeata Itik Sudu Northern Shoveller Aythya fuligula Itik Jambul Tufted Duck Branta sandvicensis — Hawaiian Goose Branta canadensis leucopareia — Aleutian Canada Goose Cairina scutulata Serai Hutan White-winged Duck Dendrocygna arcuata — Wandering Whistling-duck Dendrocygna javanica Belibis Lesser Whistling- duck Nettapus coromandelianus Itik Kapas Cotton Pygmy-goose Rhodonessa caryophyllacea — Pink-headed Duck ORDER APODIFORMES Apodidae Aerodramus salanganus — Mossy-nest Swiftlet Apus pacificus Layang-Layang Ekor Cabang Fork-tailed Swift Apus affinis Layang-Layang Rumah House Swift Collocalia brevirostris Layang-Layang Himalaya Himalayan Swiftlet Collocalia esculenta Layang-layang Perut Putih Glossy Swiftlet Cypsiurus balasiensis Layang-Layang Asia Asian Palm-swift Cypsiurus parvus — African Palm-swift 

 Wildlife Conservation 141 Hydrochous gigas Layang-layang Hantu Waterfall Swiftlet Hirundapus caudacutus Layang-layang Leher Putih White-throated Needletail Hirundapus cochinchinensis Layang-layang Rengkong Putih White-vented Needletail Hirundapus giganteus Layang-layang Besar Brown-backed Needletail Rhaphidura leucopygialis Layang-layang Kecil Silver-rumped Needletail Hemiprocnidae Hemiprocne longipennis Layang-Layang Jambul Kelabu Grey-rumped Treeswift Hemiprocne comata Layang-Layang Jambul Kecil Whiskered Treeswift Trochilidae Glaucis dohrnii — Hook-billed Hermit Hummingbird ORDER BUCEROTIFORMES Bucerotidae Aceros comatus Enggang Jambul Putih White-crowned Hornbill Aceros subruficollis Enggang Belantara Plain-pouched Hornbill Aceros nipalensis Enggang Dahan Rufous-necked Hornbill Aceros narcondami — Narcondam Hornbill Aceros plicatus — Papuan Hornbill Aceros spp. — — Anorrhinus galeritus Enggang Belukar Bushy-crested Hornbill Anorrhinus austeni — Austen’s Brown Hornbill Anorrhinus tickelli — Tickell’s Brown Hornbill Anthracoceros coronatus — Malabar Pied Hornbill Anthracoceros malayanus Enggang Gatal Birah Black Hornbill Anthracoceros albirostris Enggang Belulang Oriental Pied Hornbill 

142 Laws of Malaysia ACT 716 Anthracoceros spp. — — Buceros rhinoceros Enggang Badak Rhinoceros Hornbill Buceros bicornis Enggang Papan Great Hornbill Buceros spp. — — Rhyticeros undulatus Enggang Gunong Wreathed Hornbill Rhinoplax vigil Enggang Tebang Mentua Helmeted Hornbill ORDER CAPRIMULGIFORMES Batrachostomidae Batrachostomus auritus Segan Besar Large Frogmouth Batrachostomus harterti — Dulit Frogmouth Batrachostomus stellatus Segan Bintik Mas Gould’s Frogmouth Batrachostomus poliolophus — Short-tailed Frogmouth Batrachostomus cornutus — Sunda Frogmouth Batrachostomus javensis Segan Jawa Javan Frogmouth Batrachostomus affinis — Blyth’s Frogmouth Caprimulgidae Caprimulgus concretus — Bonarparte’s Nightjar Caprimulgus macrurus Tukang Kubur Large-tailed Nightjar Caprimulgus indicus Tukang Kelabu, Tukang Hutan Grey Nightjar Caprimulgus affinis Tukang Savana Savanna Nightjar Eurostopodus macrotis Tukang Telinga Besar Giant Eared-nightjar Eurostopodus temminckii Tukang Tabtibau Malaysian Eared- nightjar ORDER CHARADRIIFORMES Charadriidae Charadrius alexandrinus Rapang Rantai, Kedidi Pantai Kentish Plover Charadrius peronii Rapang Pasir Malaysian Plover Charadrius placidus Rapang Paruh Panjang Long-billed Plover Charadrius mongolus Rapang Mongolia Lesser Sand Plover 

 Wildlife Conservation 143 Charadrius leschenaultii Rapang Besar Greater Sand Plover Charadrius veredus Rapang Timur Oriental Plover Charadrius hiaticula Rapang Gelang Common Ringed Plover Charadrius asiaticus Kedidi Caspian Caspian Plover Charadrius dubius Rapang Biji Nangka Little Ringed Plover Pluvialis squatarola Rapang Kelabu Grey Plover Pluvialis fulva Rapang Kerinyut Pacific Golden Plover Pluvialis dominica — American Golden Plover Vanellus indicus Rapang Duit Red-wattled Lapwing Vanellus malabaricus Rapang Balung Kuning Yellow-wattled Lapwing Vanellus cinereus Rapang Kepala Kelabu Grey-headed Lapwing Scolopacidae Actitis hypoleucos Kedidi Pasir Common Sandpiper Arenaria interpres Kedidi Kerikil Ruddy Turnstone Calidris canutus Kedidi Dian Kecil Red Knot Calidris tenuirostris Kedidi Daun Besar Great Knot Calidris ruficollis Kedidi Luris Leher Red-necked Stint Calidris minuta Kedidi Kerdil Little Stint Calidris temminckii Kedidi Temminck Temminck’s Stint Calidris subminuta Kedidi Jari Panjang Long-toed Stint Calidris acuminata Kedidi Ekor Tajam Sharp-tailed sandpiper Calidris alpina Kedidi Dunlin Dunlin Calidris ferruginea Kedidi Pasir Kendi Curlew Sandpiper Calidris alba Kedidi Kapak Jalur Putih Sanderling Eurynorhynchus pygmeus Kedidi Paruh Sudu Spoon-billed Sandpiper Gallinago stenura Berkek Berbintik Pintail Snipe 

144 Laws of Malaysia ACT 716 Gallinago megala Berkek Tiruk Swinhoe’s Snipe Gallinago gallinago Berkek Ekor Kapas Common Snipe Gallinago nemoricola Berkek Kayu Wood Snipe Heteroscelus brevipes Kedidi Ekor Kelabu Grey-tailed Tattler Heteroscelus incanus Kucau Tongkeng Kelabu Wandering Tattler Limnodromus semipalmatus Kedidi Dada Merah Asian Dowitcher Limnodromus scolopaceus Kedidi Paruh Panjang Long-billed Dowitcher Limnodromus griseus — Short-billed Dowitcher Limosa limosa Kedidi Ekor Hitam Black-tailed Godwit Limosa lapponica Kedidi Berjalur Bar-tailed Godwit Limicola falcinellus Kedidi Paruh Lebar Broad-billed Sandpiper Numenius madagascariensis Kedidi Timur Far Eastern Curlew Numenius minutus Kedidi Kecil Little Curlew Numenius borealis — Eskimo Curlew Numenius tenuirostris — Slender-billed Curlew Numenius arquata Kedidi Kendi Eurasian Curlew Numenius phaeopus Kedidi Pisau Raut Whimbrel Philomachus pugnax Kedidi Ropol Ruff Phalaropus fulicaria Phalaropes Merah Red Phalarope Phalaropus lobatus Kedidi Paruh Jarum Red-necked Phalarope Scolopax rusticola Berkek Urasia Eurasian Woodcock Tringa erythropus Kedidi Berbintik Spotted Redshank Tringa totanus Kedidi Kaki Merah Common Redshank Tringa stagnatilis Kedidi Paya Marsh Sandpiper Tringa nebularia Kedidi Kaki Hijau Common Greenshank 

 Wildlife Conservation 145 Tringa guttifer Kedidi Kaki Hijau Berbintik Nordmann’s Greenshank Tringa ochropus Kedidi Pasir Hijau Green Sandpiper Tringa glareola Kedidi Kayu Wood Sandpiper Xenus cinereus Kedidi Sereng Terek Sandpiper Jacanidae Hydrophasianus chirurgus Teratai Besar Pheasant-tailed Jacana Metopidius indicus Teratai Kecil Bronz-winged Jacana Rostratulidae Rostratula benghalensis Meragi Greater Paintedsnipe Haematopodidae Haematopus ostralegus Tetiram Eurasian Oystercatcher Recurvirostridae Himantopus himantopus Stilt Kepak Hitam Black-winged Stilt Glareolidae Glareola maldivarum Lelayang Padang Collared Pratincole Stiltia isabella Lelayang Australia Australian Pratincole Burhinidae Esacus magnirostris Sisir Air Beach Thick-knee Stercorariidae Stercorarius longicaudus — Long-tailed Jaeger Stercorarius parasiticus — Parasitic Jaeger Stercorarius pomarinus Pelangi Sungai Pomarine Jaeger Laridae Anous minutus — Black Noddy Anous stolidus Camar Anggok Brown Noddy Chlidonias hybridus Camar Batu Berumbai Whiskered Tern Chlidonias leucopterus Camar Kepak Putih White-winged Tern Gelochelidon nilotica Camar Tiram Gull-billed Tern Hydroprogne caspia Camar Kaspian Caspian Tern Larus relictus — Relict Gull Larus ridibundus Camar Kepala Hitam Common Black- headed Gull Larus brunnicephalus Camar Kepala Coklat Brown-headed Gull Larus relictus — Relict Gull Larus argentatus — Herring Gull 

146 Laws of Malaysia ACT 716 Sterna hirundo Camar Siput Common Tern Sterna dougallii Camar Berjalur Roseate Tern Sterna sumatrana Camar Topi Hitam Black-naped Tern Sterna anaethetus Camar Batu Bridled tern Sterna fuscata Camar Angin Sooty Tern Sterna albifrons Camar Kecil Little Tern Sterna bergii Camar Besar Berjambul Great Crested Tern Sterna bengalensis Camar Kecil Berjambul Lesser Crested Tern Sterna bernsteini Camar Cina Berjambul Chinese Crested Tern Sterna saundersi — Saunders’s Tern ORDER CICONIIFORMES Ardeidae Ardea sumatrana Pucung Lembu Great-billed Heron Ardea cinerea Pucung Seriap Grey Heron Ardea purpurea Pucung Serandau Purple Heron Ardea goliath — Goliath Heron Ardeola bacchus Pucung Cina Chinese Pond-heron Ardeola grayii Pucung Bakau Indian Pond-heron Ardeola speciosa Pucung Jawa Javan Pond-heron Bubulcus ibis Bangau Kendi Cattle Egret Botaurus stellaris Pucung Danau Great Bittern Butorides striatus Pucung Keladi Little Heron Casmerodius albus Bangau Besar Great Egret Egretta sacra Bangau Batu Pacific Reef-egret Egretta eulophotes Bangau Cina Chinese Egret Egretta garzetta Bangau Kecil Little Egret Gorsachius melanolophus Pucung Rimau Malayan Night- Heron Ixobrychus flavicollis Pucung Hitam Black Bittern 

 Wildlife Conservation 147 Ixobrychus sinensis Pucung Merah Yellow Bittern Ixobrychus eurhythmus Pucung Gelam Von Schrenck’s Bittern Ixobrychus cinnamomeus Pucung Bendang Cinnamon Bittern Mesophoyx intermedia Bangau Kerbau Intermediate Egret Nycticorax nycticorax Pucung Kuak Black-crowned Nightheron Nycticorax caledonicus Pucung Kelabu Rufous Night-heron Ciconiidae Ciconia boyciana Botak Putih Jepun Oriental Stork Ciconia episcopus Botak Leher Putih Woolly-necked Stork Ciconia stormi Botak Leher Hitam Storm’s Stork Ephippiorhynchus senegalensis — Saddle-billed Stork Jabiru mycteria — Jabiru Leptoptilos crumeniferus — Marabou Stork Leptoptilos javanicus Botak Kecil Lesser Adjutant Mycteria cinerea Botak Upeh Milky Stork Mycteria leucocephala Botak Padi Painted Stork Threskiornithidae Eudocimus albus — White Ibis Geronticus eremita — Northern Bald Ibis Nipponia nippon — Crested Ibis Plegadis falcinellus Sekendi Kilat Glossy Ibis Pseudibis davisoni Sekendi Bahu Putih White-shouldered Ibis Threskiornis melanocephalus Sekendi Kepala Hitam Black-headed Ibis Pelecanidae Pelecanus onocrotalus Undan Putih Great Pelican Pelecanus philippensis Undan Paruh Titik Spot-billed Pelican Pelecanus crispus Dalmatian Pelican Dalmatian Pelican ORDER COLUMBIFORMES Columbidae Columba guinea — Speckled Pigeon 

148 Laws of Malaysia ACT 716 Columba iriditorques — Western Bronze- naped Pigeon Columba unicincta — Afep Pigeon Columba argentina Merpati Perak Silvery Pigeon Caloenas nicobarica Punai Mas Nicobar Pigeon Ducula mindorensis — Mindoro Imperial- pigeon Ducula aenea Pergam Besar Green Imperial- pigeon Ducula pickeringii Pergam Kelabu Grey Imperial-pigeon Ducula bicolor Pergam Rawa Pied Imperial-pigeon Ducula badia Pergam Gunong Mountain Imperial- pigeon Macropygia amboinensis — Brown Cuckoo-dove Macropygia unchall Tekukur Api Gunung Barred Cuckoo-dove Macropygia ruficeps Tekukur Api Little Cuckoo-dove Oena capensis — Namaque dove Ptilinopus jambu Punai Jambu Jambu Fruit-dove Ptilinopus melanospila — Black-naped Fruit- dove Streptopelia bitorquata — Island Collared-dove Streptopelia tranquebarica Tekukur Merah Red collared-dove Streptopelia decipiens — Mourning Collared- dove Streptopelia roseogrisea — African Collared- dove Streptopelia semitorquata — Red-eyed Dove Streptopelia senegalensis — Laughing Dove Streptopelia turtur — European Turtle-dove Streptopelia vinacea — Vinaceous Dove Treron fulvicollis Punai Bakau Cinnamon-headed Green-pigeon 

 Wildlife Conservation 149 Treron sphenura Punai Bukit Wedge-tailed-pigeon Treron curvirostra Punai Lengguak Thick-billed Green- pigeon Treron capellei Punai Bakok Large Green-pigeon Treron bicincta Punai Siam Orange-breasted Green-pigeon Treron seimundi Punai Gunung Yellow-vented Green Pigeon Treron calva — African Green-pigeon Treron waalia — Bruce’s Green- pigeon Turtur abyssinicus — Black-billed Wood- dove Turtur afer — Blue-spotted Wooddove Turtur brehmeri — Blue-headed Wooddove Turtur tympanistria — Tambourine Dove ORDER CORACIIFORMES Alcedinidae Alcedo atthis Pekaka Cit-Cit Kecil Common Kingfisher Alcedo euryzona Pekaka Bukit Blue-banded Kingfisher Alcedo meninting Pekaka Bintek- Bintek Blue-eared Kingfisher Actenoides concretus Pekaka Rimba Besar Rufous-collared Kingfisher Halcyon coromanda Pekaka Belacan Ruddy Kingfisher Halcyon pileata Pekaka Kopiah Hitam Black-capped Kingfisher Halcyon smyrnensis Pekaka Belukar White-throated Kingfisher Lacedo pulchella Pekaka Riang Rimba Banded Kingfisher Pelargopsis amauroptera — Brown-winged Kingfisher Pelargopsis capensis — Stork-billed Kingfisher 

150 Laws of Malaysia ACT 716 Todiramphus sanctus — Sacred Kingfisher Todiramphus pyrrhopygius — Red-backed Kingfisher Todiramphus chloris Pekaka Sungai Collared Kingfisher Meropidae Merops leschenaulti Berek-Berek Senja Chestnut-headed Bee-eater Merops philippinus Berek-Berek Carik Dada Blue-tailed Bee-eater Merops viridis Berek-Berek Tadah Hujan Blue-throated Bee- eater Merops superciliosus — Madagascar Bee- eater Nyctyornis amictus Berek-Berek Janggut Merah Red-bearded Bee- eater Coraciidae Coracias benghalensis Tiong Gajah Indian Roller Eurystomus orientalis Tiong Batu Dollarbird Upupidae Upupa epops Hupo Tunggal Common Hoopoe ORDER CUCULIFORMES Cuculidae Clamator coromandus Sewah Kepak Merah Berjambul Chestnut-winged Cuckoo Cuculus sparverioides Sewah Tekukur Besar Large Hawk-cuckoo Cuculus vagans Sewah Tekukur Kecil Moustached Hawk- cuckoo Cuculus fugax Sewah Hantu Malaysian Hawk- cuckoo Cuculus nisicolor — Hodgson’s Hawk- cuckoo Cuculus hyperythrus — Northern Hawk- cuckoo Cuculus micropterus Sewah India Indian Cuckoo Cuculus saturatus Sewah Dada Putih Oriental Cuckoo Cuculus poliocephalus — Lesser Cuckoo Cacomantis sonneratii Sewah Takuweh Banded Bay Cuckoo Cacomantis merulinus Sewah Mati Anak Plaintive Cuckoo 

 Wildlife Conservation 151 Cacomantis sepulcralis Sewah Gila Rusty-breasted Cuckoo Cacomantis variolosus — Brush Cuckoo Chrysococcyx xanthorhynchus Sewah Rembah Violet Cuckoo Chrysococcyx maculatus Sewah Tanah Asian Emerald Cuckoo Chrysococcyx basalis Sewah Sampah Horsfield’s Bronze- cuckoo Chrysococcyx russatus — Gould’s Bronze- cuckoo Chrysococcyx minutillus Sewah Daun Little Bronze-cuckoo Carpococcyx radiatus — Bornean Ground Cuckoo Centropus rectunguis But-but Jari Pendek Short-toed Coucal Centropus sinensis But-But Carik Anak Greater Coucal Centropus bengalensis But-But Kecil Lesser Coucal Eudynamys scolopacea Sewah Tahu Asian Koel Phaenicophaeus diardi Cenok Perut Hitam Black-bellied Malkoha Phaenicophaeus sumatranus Cenok Kecil Chestnut-bellied Malkoha Phaenicophaeus tristis Cenok Kera Green-billed Malkoha Phaenicophaeus chlorophaeus Cenok Kerak Raffles’s Malkoha Phaenicophaeus javanicus Cenok Api Red-billed Malkoha Phaenicophaeus curvirostris Cenok Birah Chestnut-breasted Malkoha Surniculus lugubris Sewah Sawai Drongo Cuckoo ORDER FALCONIFORMES Cathartidae Gymnogyps californianus — California Condor Vultur gryphus — Andean Condor Pandionidae Pandion haliaetus Lang Tiram Osprey Accipitridae Accipiter badius Lang Bido Shikra 

152 Laws of Malaysia ACT 716 Accipiter gularis Lang Sawah Japanese Sparrowhawk Accipiter soloensis Lang Rajawali Chinese Goshawk Accipiter trivirgatus Lang Sika Crested Goshawk Accipiter virgatus Lang Garang Besra Accipiter spp. — — Aegypius monachus Hering Hitam Cinereous Vulture Aquila clanga Lang Bintik Greater Spotted Eagle Aquila heliaca Lang Gunung Imperial Eagle Aquila nipalensis Helang Padang Steppe Eagle Aquila spp. — — Asturina nitida — Grey-lined Hawk Aviceda jerdoni Lang Baza Jerdon’s Baza Aviceda leuphotes Lang Baza Berjambul Black Baza Aviceda spp. — — Busarellus nigricollis — Black-collared Hawk Butastur indicus Lang Bintik Grey-faced Buzzard Butastur spp. — — Buteo buteo Lang Besar Common Buzzard Buteo spp. — — Buteogallus spp. — — Chelictinia riocourii — African Swallow- tailed Kite Chondrohierax uncinatus wilsonii — Cuban Hook-billed Kite Circaetus gallicus Helang Ular Short-toed Eagle Circaetus spp. — — Circus aeruginosus Lang Barat Marsh-harrier Circus cyaneus Lang Sayap Hitam Northern harrier 

 Wildlife Conservation 153 Circus melanoleucos Lang Tangling Pied Harrier Circus spilonotus Lang Timur Eastern Marsh-harrier Circus spp. — — Dryotriorchis spectabilis — African Serpent-eagle Elanoides forficatus — Swallow-tailed Kite Elanus axillaris Lang Bahu Hitam Black-shouldered Kite Elanus caeruleus — Black-winged Kite Elanus spp. — — Erythrotriorchis buergersi — Chestnut-shouldered Hawk Erythrotriorchis radiatus — Red Goshawk Eutriorchis astur — Madagascar Serpent- eagle Gampsonyx swainsonii — Pearl Kite Geranoaetus melanoleucus — Black-chested Buzzard-eagle Geranospiza caerulescens — Crane Hawk Gypaetus barbatus — Bearded Vulture Gypohierax angolensis — Vulturine Fish-eagle Gyps bengalensis Hereng Tongkeng Puteh White-rumped Vulture Gyps himalayensis Hereng Himalaya Himalayan Griffon Gyps indicus Hereng Paruh Panjang Indian Vulture Gyps spp. — — Haliaeetus albicilla Helang Laut Kelabu Grey Sea-eagle Haliaeetus leucogaster Lang Siput White-bellied Sea- eagle Haliaeetus spp. — — Haliastur indus Lang Merah Brahminy Kite Haliastur sphenurus — Whistling Eagle Hamirostra melanosternon — Black-breasted Buzzard 

154 Laws of Malaysia ACT 716 Harpagus bidentatus — Double-toothed Kite Harpagus diodon — Rufous-thighed Kite Harpia harpyja — Harpy Eagle Harpyhaliaetus coronatus — Crowned Eagle Harpyhaliaetus solitaries — Solitary Eagle Harpyopsis novaeguineae — New Guinea Eagle Henicopernis infuscatus — Black Honey-buzzard Henicopernis longicauda — Long-tailed Honey- buzzard Hieraaetus spp. — — Hiraaetus pennatus Helang Junam Booted Hawk Ichthyophaga humilis Lang Kanggok Lesser Fish-eagle Ichthyophaga ichthyaetus Lang Kepala Kelabu Grey-headed Fish- eagle Ictinaetus malayensis Lang Hitam Black Eagle Ictinia mississippiensis — Mississippi Kite Ictinia plumbea — Plumbeous Kite Kaupifalco monogrammicus — Lizard Buzzard Leptodon cayanensis Lang Kepala Kelabu Grey-headed Kite Leucopternis spp. — — Lophaetus occipitalis — Long-crested Eagle Lophoictinia isura — Square-tailed Kite Lophotriorchis kienerii Lang Bandong Rufous-bellied Eagle Macheiramphus alcinus Lang Malam Bat Hawk Megatriorchis doriae — Doria’s Goshawk Melierax spp. — — Micronisus gabar — Gabar Goshawk Milvus migrans Lang Gelap Black Kite Milvus spp. — — Morphnus guianensis — Crested Eagle 

 Wildlife Conservation 155 Necrosyrtes monachus — Hooded Vulture Neophron percnopterus — Egyptian Vulture Nisaetus philippensis — Philippine Hawk Eagle Oroaetus isidori — Black and Chestnut Parabuteo unicinctus — Bay-winged Hawk Pernis ptilorhynchus Lang lebah Oriental Honey- buzzard Pernis spp. — — Pithecophaga jefferyi — Great Philippine Eagle Polemaetus bellicosus — Martial Eagle Polyboroides radiatus — Madagascar Gymnogene Polyboroides typus — African Gymnogene Rostrhamus hamatus — Slender-billed Kite Rostrhamus sociabilis — Snail Kite Sarcogyps calvus Hering Kepala Merah Red-headed Vulture Spilornis cheela Lang Berjambul Crested Serpent-eagle Spilornis spp. — — Spizaetus alboniger Lang Hantu Blyth’s Hawk-eagle Spizaetus cirrhatus Lang Hindek Changeable Hawk- Eagle Spizaetus nanus Lang Selat Wallace’s Hawk- eagle Spizaetus nipalensis Lang Gunung Mountain Hawk- eagle Spizaetus spp. — — Stephanoaetus coronatus — African Crowned Eagle Terathopius ecaudatus — Bateleur Eagle Torgos tracheliotus — Lappet-faced Vulture Trigonoceps occipitalis — White-headed Vulture 

156 Laws of Malaysia ACT 716 Urotriorchis macrourus — African Long-tailed Hawk Falconidae Caracara lutosa — Guadalupe Caracara Caracara plancus — Southern Caracara Daptrius ater — Black Caracara Falco amurensis Falko Lalat Amur Falcon Falco araea — Seychelles Kestrel Falco jugger Falko Awan Laggar Falcon Falco newtoni — Madagascar Kestrel Falco pelegrinoides — Barbary Falcon Falco peregrinus Falko Belalang Peregrine Falcon Falco punctatus — Mauritius Kestrel Falco rusticolus — Gyr Falcon Falco severus Falko Timor Oriental Hobby Falco spp. — — Falco subbuteo Falko Utara Eurasian Hobby Falco tinnuculus Falko Serani Common Kestrel Herpetotheres cachinnans — Laughing Falcon Ibycter americanus — Red-throated Caracara Micrastur spp. — — Microhierax fringillarius Falko Rajawali Black-thighed Falconet Microhierax latifrons — White-fronted Falconet Microhierax spp. — Milvago chimachima — Yellow-headed Caracara Milvago chimango — Chimango Caracara Phalcoboenus spp. — — 

 Wildlife Conservation 157 Polihierax insignis Falko Tongkeng Putih White-rumped Falcon Polihierax semitorquatus — African Pygmy Falcon Spiziapteryx circumcinctus — Spot-winged Falcon ORDER GALLIFORMES Cracidae Crax blumenbachii — Red-billed Curassow Mitu mitu — Alagoas Curassow Oreophasis derbianus — Horned Guan Penelope albipennis — White-winged Guan Pipile jacutinga — Black-fronted Curassow Pipile pipile — Trinidad Piping-Guan Megapodidae Megapodius cumingii — Philippine Scrubfowl Macrocephalon maleo — Maleo Phasianidae Arborophila brunneopectus — Bar-backed Partridge Arborophila campbelli — Malaysian Hill- partridge Arborophila charltonii Siul Onak Chestnut-necklaced Partridge Arborophila hyperythra — Red-breasted Partridge Argusianus argus Kuang Raya Great Argus Caloperdix oculeus Sang Serok Rimba Ferruginous Partridge Catreus wallichii — Cheer Pheasant Colinus virginianus ridgwayi — Masked Bobwhite Crossoptilon crossoptilon — White Eared- pheasant Crossoptilon harmani — Tibetan Eared- pheasant Crossoptilon mantchuricum — Brown Eared- pheasant Haematortyx sanguiniceps — Crimson-headed Partridge 

158 Laws of Malaysia ACT 716 Lophophorus impejanus Kuang Semut Himalayan Monal Lophophorus lhuysii — Chinese Impeyan Lophophorus sclateri Kuang Pacat Crestless Monal Lophura bulweri — Bulwer’s Pheasant Lophura edwardsi Kuang Ranting Edwards’s Pheasant Lophura erythrophthalma Merah Mata Crestless Fireback Lophura ignita Ayam Pegar Crested Fireback Lophura imperialis Kuang Batu Hampar Imperial Pheasant Lophura swinhoii — Swinhoe’s Pheasant Melanoperdix niger Siul Bertam Black Partridge Pavo muticus Merak Hijau Green Peafowl Polyplectron inopinatum Kuang Cermin Mountain Peacock- pheasant Polyplectron malacense Merak Pongsu Malaysian Peacock- pheasant Polyplectron napoleonis — Palawan Peacockpheasant Polyplectron schleiermacheri Kuang Borneo Borneon Peacock- pheasant Rheinardia ocellata Kuang Raya Gunung Crested Argus Rhizothera longirostris Siul Selanting Long-billed Partridge Rollulus rouloul Siul Berjambul Crested Partridge Syrmaticus ellioti — Elliot’s Pheasant Syrmaticus humiae — Hume’s Pheasant Syrmaticus mikado — Mikado Pheasant Tetraogallus caspius — Caspian Snowcock Tetraogallus tibetanus — Tibetan Snowcock Tragopan blythii — Blyth’s Tragopan Tragopan caboti — Cabot’s Tragopan Tragopan Melanocephalus — Western Tragopan 

 Wildlife Conservation 159 Tympanuchus cupido attwateri — Attwater’s Prairie- chicken ORDER GRUIFORMES Gruidae Grus antigone Keria Timur Sarus Crane Grus americana — Whooping Crane Grus canadensis nesiotes — Cuban Sandhill Crane Grus canadensis pulla — Mississippi Sandhill Crane Grus japonensis — Red-crowned Crane Grus leucogeranus — Siberian White Crane Grus monacha — Hooded Crane Grus nigricollis Keria Leher Hitam Black-necked Crane Grus vipio Keria Leher Putih White-naped Crane Grus virgo — Demoiselle Crane Rallidae Fulica atra Pangling Hitam Common Coot Gallicrex cinerea Ayam-Ayam Watercock Gallinula chloropus Tiong Air Common Moorhen Gallirallus striatus Sintar Slaty-breasted Rail Gallirallus sylvestris — Lord Howe Island Rail Gallirallus australis — Weka Porzana pusilla Sintar Kecil Bailon’s Crake Porzana fusca Sintar Belacan Ruddy-breasted Crake Porzana paykullii Sintar Berjalur Band-bellied Crake Porphyrio porphyrio Pangling Purple Swamphen Rallus aquaticus Sintar Air Water Rail Rallina fasciata Sintar Api Red-legged Crake Rallina eurizonoides Sintar Merah Slaty-legged Crake Rhynochetidae Rhynochetos jubatus — Kagu Heliornithidae Heliopais personata Pedendang Masked Finfoot 

160 Laws of Malaysia ACT 716 Otididae Ardeotis nigriceps — Great Indian Bustard Chlamydotis undulata — Houbara Bustards Houbaropsis bengalensis — Bengal Bustards ORDER PASSERIFORMES Acanthizidae Gerygone sulphurea Cekup Perepat Golden-bellied Gerygone Alaudidae Alauda gulgula — Oriental Skylark Atrichornithidae Atrichornis clamosus — Noisy Scrub-bird Campephagidae Coracina javensis Sewah Besar Javan Cuckooshrike Coracina striata Sewah Rimba Bar-bellied Cuckooshrike Coracina larvata Sewah Sunda Sunda Cuckooshrike Coracina fimbriata Sewah Kecil Lesser Cuckooshrike Coracina novaehollandiae — Black-faced Cuckooshrike Hemipus picatus Rembah Bukit Bar-winged Flycatchershrike Hemipus hirundinaceus Rembah Batu Black-winged Flycatcher-shrike Lalage nigra Sewah Kapas Pied Triller Pericrocotus divaricatus Mas Padang Ashy Minivet Pericrocotus igneus Mas Tulin Fiery Minivet Pericrocotus solaris Mas Dagu Kelabu Grey-chinned Minivet Pericrocotus flammeus Mas Belukar Scarlet Minivet Pericrocotus ethologus — Long-tailed Minivet Tephrodornis gularis Rembah Kayu Besar Large Woodshrike Chloropseidae Aegithina lafresnayei Kunyit Bukit Great Iora Aegithina tiphia Kunyit Pacat Common Iora Aegithina viridissima Kunyit Bakau Green Iora 

 Wildlife Conservation 161 Chloropsis cochinchinensis Daun sayap Biru Blue-winged Leafbird Chloropsis cyanopogon Daun Kecil Lesser Green Leafbird Chloropsis hardwickii Daun Paruh Oren Orange-bellied Leafbird Chloropsis kinabaluensis — Kinabalu Leafbird Chloropsis sonnerati Daun Besar Greater Green Leafbird Corvidae Crypsirina temia Gagak Anting-anting Racquet-tailed Treepie Cissa chinensis Gagak Gunung Common Green Magpie Cissa thalassina Gagak Ekor Pendek Short-tailed Green Magpie Dendrocitta cinerascens Gagak Borneo Bornean Treepie Platylophus galericulatus Gagak Jerit Crested Jay Platysmurus leucopterus Gagak Kambing Black Magpie Cotingidae Cotinga maculata — Banded Cotinga Xipholena atropurpurea — White-winged Cotinga Dasyornithidae Dasyornis longirostris — Western Bristlebird Dasyornis broadbenti litoralis — Lesser Rufous Bristlebird Dicaeidae Dicaeum cruentatum Sepah Puteri Merah Scarlet-backed Flowerpecker Dicaeum ignipectus Sepah Puteri Sulong Buff-bellied Flowerpecker Dicaeum sanguinolentum — Blood-breasted Flowerpecker Dicaeum agile — Thick-billed Flowerpecker Dicaeum everetti Sepah Puteri Gunong Brown-backed Flowerpecker Dicaeum chrysorrheum Sepah Puteri Rimba Yellow-vented Flowerpecker 

162 Laws of Malaysia ACT 716 Dicaeum trigonostigma Sepah Puteri Bukit Orange-bellied Flowerpecker Dicaeum concolor Sepah Puteri Bongsu Plain Flowerpecker Dicaeum monticolum — Black-sided Flowerpecker Prionochilus xanthopygius — Yellow-rumped Flowerpecker Prionochilus maculatus Sepah Puteri Raja Yellow-breasted Flowerpecker Prionochilus percussus Sepah Puteri Kayangan Crimson-breasted Flowerpecker Prionochilus thoracicus Sepah Puteri Scarlet-breasted Flowerpecker Dicruridae Dicrurus aeneus Cecawi Keladi Bronze Drongo Dicrurus annectans Cecawi Sawai Crow-billed Drongo Dicrurus hottentottus Cecawi Rimba Spangled Drongo Dicrurus leucophaeus Cecawi Rantau Ashy Drongo Dicrurus macrocercus Cecawi Rajawali Black Drongo Dicrurus paradiseus Cecawi Anting- anting Greater Racquet- tailed Drongo Dicrurus remifer Cecawi Hamba Kera Lesser Racquet-tailed Drongo Emberizidae Emberiza fucata Cakar Ulat Chestnut-eared Bunting Emberiza pusilla Cakar Kecil Little Bunting Emberiza melanocephala Cakar Kepala Hitam Black Headed Bunting Emberiza aureola Cakar Ranting Yellow-breasted Bunting Estrildidae Erythrura prasina Ciak Ekor Jarum Pin-tailed Parrotfinch Erythrura hyperythra Ciak Buluh Tawny-breasted Parrotfinch Eurylaimidae Corydon sumatranus Takau Rimba Hujan Dusky Broadbill Cymbirhynchus macrorhynchos Takau Rakit Black-and-red Broadbill Calyptomena viridis Takau Selawit Green Broadbill 

 Wildlife Conservation 163 Calyptomena hosei — Hose’s Broadbill Calyptomena whiteheadi — Whitehead’s Broadbill Eurylaimus javanicus Takau Rimba Banded Broadbill Eurylaimus ochromalus Takau Hitam Kuning Black-and-yellow Broadbill Psarisomus dalhousiae Takau Injap Long Tailed Broadbill Serilophus lunatus Takau Tanda Hujan Silver Breasted Broadbill Fringillidae Carduelis cucullata — Red Siskin Pyrrhula nipalensis Cakar Coklat Brown Bullfinch Hirundinidae Delichon urbica — Northern House- martin Delichon dasypus Martin Asia Asian House-martin Hirundo concolor Martin Kelabu Dusky Crag-martin Hirundo daurica Sualo Gua Red-rumped Swallow Hirundo rustica Sualo Api Barn Swallow Hirundo striolata — Striated Swallow Hirundo tahitica Sualo Batu Pacific Swallow Pseudochelidon sirintarae Martin Sungai White-eyed River Martin Riparia riparia Martin Awan Plain Swallow Icteridae Xanthopsar flavus — Saffron-cowled Blackbird Irenidae Irena puella Dendang Gajah Asian Fairy-bluebird Laniidae Lanius cristatus Tirjup Tanah Brown Shrike Lanius tigrinus Tirjup Rimau Tiger Shrike Lanius schach Tirjup Ekor Panjang Long-tailed Shrike Meliphagidae Lichenostomus melanops cassidix — Helmeted Honeyeater Monarchidae Hypothymis azurea Sambar Uban Hitam Black-naped Monarch 

164 Laws of Malaysia ACT 716 Terpsiphone atrocaudata Sambar Jepun Japanese Paradise- flycatcher Terpsiphone paradisi Sambar Ekor Panjang Asian Paradise- flycatcher Motacillidae Anthus hodgsoni Pipit Padang Olive Tree-pipit Anthus gustavi Pipit Rumput Pechora Pipit Anthus richardi Pipit Tanah Richard’s Pipit Anthus rufulus Pipit Padi Paddyfield Pipit Anthus cervinus Pipit Injup Red-throated Pipit Anthus novaeseelandiae — Australasian Pipit Dendronanthus indicus Pipit Rimba Forest Wagtail Motacilla alba Pipit Pelandok White Wagtail Motacilla cinerea Pipit Batu Grey Wagtail Motacilla flava Pipit Kuning Yellow Wagtail Muscicapidae Culicicapa ceylonensis Sambar Pacat Grey-headed Flycatcher Cyanoptila cyanomelana Sambar Biru Putih Blue-and-white Flycatcher Cyornis ruckii Sambar Ruki Rueck’s Blue- Flycatcher Cyornis banyumas Sambar Bukit Hill Blue-flycatcher Cyornis caerulatus — Large-billed Blue- flycatcher Cyornis concretus Sambar Ekor Putih White-tailed Flycatcher Cyornis rubeculoides Sambar Rengkong Biru Blue-throated Flycatcher Cyornis rufigastra Sambar Biru Bakau Mangrove Blue- flycatcher Cyornis superbus — Bornean Blue- flycatcher Cyornis tickelliae Sambar Kelicap Ranting Tickell’s Blue- flycatcher Cyornis turcosus Sambar Biru Malaysia Malaysian Blue- flycatcher 

 Wildlife Conservation 165 Cyornis unicolor Sambar Rimba Pale Blue-flycatcher Eumyias indigo — Indigo Flycatcher Eumyias thalassina Sambar Ranting Verditer Flycatcher Ficedula dumetoria Sambar Dada Oren Rufous-chested Flycatcher Ficedula hyperythra Sambar Kudung Snowy-browed Flycatcher Ficedula mugimaki Sambar Mugimaki Mugimaki Flycatcher Ficedula narcissina Sambar Bunga Narcissus Flycatcher Ficedula parva Sambar Api Bukit Red-throated Flycatcher Ficedula solitaris Sambar Rengkong Putih Rufous-browed Flycatcher Ficedula westermanni Sambar Gunung Little Pied Flycatcher Ficedula zanthopygia Sambar Tongkeng Kuning Yellow-rumped Flycatcher Muscicapa dauurica Sambar Coklat Asia Asian Brown Flycatcher Muscicapa ferruginea Sambar Sampah Ferruginous Flycatcher Muscicapa griseisticta Sambar Arang Grey-streaked Flycatcher Muscicapa sibirica Sambar Sibiria Dark-sided Flycatcher Muscicapa williamsoni Sambar Belantara Brown-streaked Flycatcher Muscicapella hodgsoni Sambar Biru kecil Pygmy Blue- flycatcher Niltava grandis Sambar Besar Large Niltava Niltava sumatrana Sambar Malaysia Rufous-vented Niltava Philentoma pyrhoptera Sambar Paya Rufous-winged Philentoma Philentoma velata Sambar Ungu Maroon-breasted Philentoma Rhinomyias brunneata Sambar Hutan Brown-chested Jungle Flycatcher 

166 Laws of Malaysia ACT 716 Rhinomyias gularis — Eye-browed Jungle Flycatcher Rhinomyias olivacea Sambar Bukit Fulvous-chested Jungle Flycatcher Rhinomyias ruficauda — Rufous-tailed Jungle Flycatcher Rhinomyias umbratilis Sambar Batu Grey-chested Jungle Flycatcher Nectarinidae Aethopyga saturata Kelicap Gunung Black-throated Sunbird Aethopyga siparaja Kelicap Sepah Raja Crimson Sunbird Aethopyga mystacalis Kelicap Merah Scarlet/Temminck’s Sunbird Anthreptes malacensis Kelicap Mayang Kelapa Brown-throated Sunbird Anthreptes rhodolaemus Kelicap Pinang Red-throated Sunbird Anthreptes simplex Kelicap Kelabu Plain Sunbird Anthreptes singalensis Kelicap Belukar Ruby-cheeked Sunbird Arachnothera affinis Kelicap Jantung Bukit Grey-breasted Spiderhunter Arachnothera chrysogenys Kelicap Jantung Telinga Kuning Yellow-eared Spiderhunter Arachnothera crassirostris Kelicap Jantung Paruh Tebal Thick-billed Spiderhunter Arachnothera flavigaster Kelicap Jantung Besar Spectacled Spiderhunter Arachnothera juliae Kelicap Jantung Kepala Putih Whitehead’s Spiderhunter Arachnothera longirostra Kelicap Jantung Little Spiderhunter Arachnothera magna Kelicap Jantung Gunung Streaked Spiderhunter Arachnothera modesta — Streaky-breasted Spiderhunter Arachnothera robusta Kelicap Jantung Paruh Panjang Long-billed Spiderhunter Hypogramma hypogrammicum Kelicap Rimba Purple-naped Sunbird 

 Wildlife Conservation 167 Nectarinia calcostetha Kelicap Bakau Copper-throated Sunbird Nectarinia jugularis Kelicap Bukit Olive-backed Sunbird Nectarinia sperata Kelicap Nibung Purple-throated Sunbird Oriolidae Oriolus chinensis Dendang Selayang Black-naped Oriole Oriolus cruentus Dendang Mas Black-and-crimson Oriole Oriolus hosei Dendang Hitam Black Oriole Oriolus oriolus — Eurasian Golden Oriole Oriolus xanthonotus Dendang Senja Dark-throated Oriole Oriolus xanthornus Dendang Belukar Black-hooded Oriole Pachycephalidae Pachycephala grisola Sambar Siul Belukar Mangrove Whistler Pachycephala homeyeri — White- vented Whistler Pachycephala hypoxantha — Bornean Whistler Paridae Melanochlora sultanea Serai Sultan Sultan Tit Parus major Serai Bakau Great Tit Picathartidae Picathartes gymnocephalus — Bare-headed Rockfowl Picathartes oreas — Grey-necked Picathartes Pittidae Pitta arquata Pacat Belang Biru Blue-banded Pitta Pitta baudii Pacat Kepala Biru Blue-headed Pitta Pitta caerulea Pacat Besar Giant Pitta Pitta granatina Pacat Kepala Merah Garnet Pitta Pitta guajana Pacat Bukit Banded Pitta Pitta megarhyncha Pacat Bakau Mangrove Pitta Pitta moluccensis Pacat Sayap Biru Blue-winged Pitta Pitta nympha — Fairy Pitta 

168 Laws of Malaysia ACT 716 Pitta sordida Pacat Gembala Pelanduk Hooded Pitta Pitta ussheri — Black-headed Pitta Pitta gurneyi Pacat Raya Gurney’s Pitta Pitta kochi — Whiskered Pitta Pycnonotidae Alophoixus bres Merbah Sampah Grey-cheeked Bulbul Alophoixus finschii Merbah Rempah Finsch’s Bulbul Alophoixus ochraceus Merbah Beringin Ochraceous Bulbul Alophoixus phaeocephalus Merbah Perut Kuning Yellow-bellied Bulbul Hemixos flavala Merbah Abu Ashy Bulbul Hypsipetes mcclellandii Merbah Lorek Gunung Mountain Bulbul Hypsipetes virescens — Green-winged Bulbul Iole olivacea Merbah Riang Buff-vented Bulbul Iole propinqua — Grey-eyed Bulbul Ixos malaccensis Merbah Lorek Bukit Streaked Bulbul Pycnonotus atriceps Merbah Siam Black-headed Bulbul Pycnonotus blanfordi Merbah Telinga Lurus Streak-eared Bulbul Pycnonotus brunneus Merbah Mata Merah Red-eyed Bulbul Pycnonotus cyaniventris Merbah Kelabu Grey-bellied Bulbul Pycnonotus erythropthalmos Merbah Kecil Spectacled Bulbul Pycnonotus eutilotus Merbah Coklat Berjambul Puff-backed Bulbul Pycnonotus finlaysoni Merbah Luris Leher Stripe-throated Bulbul Pycnonotus flavescens Merbah Kening Putih Flavescent Bulbul Pycnonotus melanicterus Merbah Jambul Hitam Black-crested Bulbul Pycnonotus melanoleucos Merbah Hitam Putih Black-and-white Bulbul 

 Wildlife Conservation 169 Pycnonotus plumosus Merbah Belukar Olive-winged Bulbul Pycnonotus simplex Merbah Mata Putih Cream-vented Bulbul Pycnonotus squamatus Merbah Bersisik Scaly-breasted Bulbul Pycnonotus zeylanicus Barau-Barau Straw-headed Bulbul Setornis criniger — Hook-billed Bulbul Tricholestes criniger Merbah Bulu Panjang Tengkuk Hairy-backed Bulbul Rhipiduridae Rhipidura albicollis Sambar Gila Gunung White-throated Fantail Rhipidura perlata Sambar Gila Bukit Spotted Fantail Rhipidura javanica Sambar Murai Gila Pied Fantail Sittidae Sitta azurea Patuk Gunung Blue Nuthatch Sitta frontalis Patuk Baldu Velvet-fronted Nuthatch Sturnidae Acridotheres cristatellus Tiong China Crested Myna Ampliceps coronatus Tiong Jambul Mas Golden-crested Myna Leucopsar rothschildi Tiong Bali Bali Myna Sturnus sinensis — White-shouldered Starling Sturnus sturninus — Purple-backed Starling Sylviidae Abroscopus superciliaris Cekup Perut Kuning Yellow-bellied Warbler Acrocephalus aedon Cekup Paruh Tebal Thick-billed Reedwarbler Acrocephalus bistrigiceps Cekup Alis Hitam Black-browed Reedwarbler Acrocephalus orientalis Cekup Paya Besar Oriental Reed- warbler Acrocephalus stentoreus Cekup Resam Clamorous Reed- warbler Acrocephalus arundinaceus — Great Reed-warbler 

170 Laws of Malaysia ACT 716 Bradypterus accentor — Friendly Bush- warbler Cettia vulcania — Sunda Bush-warbler Cisticola juncidis Cekup Layang Zitting Cisticola Locustella certhiola Cekup Belalang Rusty-rumped Warbler Locustella lanceolata Cekup Tikus Lanceolated Warbler Locustella ochotensis Cekup Paya Middendorff’s Warbler Megalurus palustris Cekup Jalur Striated Grassbird Orthotomus atrogularis Perenjak Belukar Dark-necked Tailorbird Orthotomus cuculatus Perenjak Gunung Mountain Tailorbird Orthotomus sericeus Perenjak Rimba Rufous-tailed Tailorbird Orthotomus ruficeps Perenjak Bukit Ashy Tailorbird Orthotomus sepium — Olive-backed Tailorbird Orthotomus sutorius Perenjak Pisang Common Tailorbird Phylloscopus borealis Cekup Artik Arctic Warbler Phylloscopus coronatus Cekup Dahan Eastern Crowned Warbler Phylloscopus fuscatus Cekup Daun Bakau Dusky Warbler Phylloscopus inornatus Cekup Rimba Yellow- Browed/Inornate Warbler Phylloscopus plumbeitarsus — Two-barred Warbler Phylloscopus tenellipes Cekup Ranting Pale-legged Warbler Phylloscopus trivirgatus Cekup Daun Gunung Mountain Leaf- warbler Phylloscopus occipitalis — Western Crowned Warbler Prinia atrogularis Perenjak Puncak Hill Prinia Prinia flaviventris Perenjak Padi Yellow-bellied Prinia Prinia rufescens Perenjak Sampah Rufescent Prinia 

 Wildlife Conservation 171 Seicercus burkii Cekup Mata Kuning Golden-spectacled Warbler Seicercus montis Cekup Dada Kuning Yellow-breasted Warbler Seicercus castaniceps Cekup Mahkota Coklat Chestnut-crowned Warbler Urosphena whiteheadi — Bornean Subtail Timaliidae Alcippe brunneicauda Rimba Murai Coklat Brown Fulvetta Alcippe castaneceps Rimba Murai Batu Rufous-winged Fulvetta Alcippe peracensis Rimba Murai Gunung Mountain Fulvetta Cutia nipalensis Rimba Kutia Cutia Eupetes macrocerus Rimba Malaysia Malaysian Rail- babbler Gampsorhynchus rufulus Rimba Tudung Putih White-hooded Babbler Garrulax erythrocephalus Rimba Mahkota Merah Chestnut-crowned Laughingthrush Garrulax lugubris Rimba Hitam Black Laughingthrush Garrulax mitratus Rimba Genting Chestnut-capped Laughingthrush Garrulax palliatus — Sunda Laughingthrush Heterophasia picaoides Sibia Ekor Panjang Long-tailed Sibia Kenopia striata Rimba Tanda Hujan Striped Wren-babbler Leiothrix argentauris Rimba Telinga Perak Silver-eared Mesia Macronous gularis Rimba Berjalur Striped Tit-babbler Macronous ptilosus Rimba Pong Pong Fluffy-backed Tit- babbler Malacocincla abbotti Rimba Riang Abbott’s Babbler Malacocincla malaccensis Rimba Ekor Pendek Short-tailed Babbler Malacocincla sepiaria Rimba Hutan Horsfield’s Babbler 

172 Laws of Malaysia ACT 716 Malacopteron affine Rimba Tinjau Belukar Sooty-capped Babbler Turdidae Malacopteron albogulare Rimba Dahan Grey-breasted Babbler Malacopteron cinereum Rimba Tua Kecil Scaly-crowned Babbler Malacopteron magnirostre Rimba Bermisai Moustached Babbler Malacopteron magnum Rimba Tua Besar Rufous-crowned babbler Minla cyanouroptera Rimba Murai Gunung Blue-winged Minla Minla strigula Rimba Murai Keladi Chestnut-tailed Minla Napothera brevicaudata Rimba Tunggul Streaked Wren- babbler Napothera crassa Rimba Gunung Mountain Wren- babbler Napothera epilepidota Rimba Bercelak Eye-browed Wren- babbler Napothera macrodactyla Rimba Besar Hujan Large Wren-babbler Napothera marmorata Rimba Pacat Marbled Wren- babbler Pellorneum capistratum Rimba Kopiah Hitam Black-capped Babbler Pellorneum pyrrogenys Rimba Timmink Temminck’s Babbler Pellorneum ruficeps Rimba Bintik- Bintik Puff-throated Babbler Pnoepyga pusilla Rimba Lompat Pygmy Wren-babbler Pomatorhinus hypoleucos Rimba Paya Large Scimitar- babbler Pomatorhinus montanus Rimba Hulu Chestnut-backed Scimitar-babbler Pteruthius flaviscapis Rimba Cekup Belalang White-browed Shrike-babbler Pteruthius melanotis Rimba Cekup Telinga Hitam Black-eared Shrikebabbler Ptilocichla leucogrammica — Bornean Wren- babbler 

 Wildlife Conservation 173 Stachyris chrysaea Rimba Mas Golden Babbler Stachyris erythroptera Rimba Merbah Sampah Chestnut-winged Babbler Stachyris leucotis Rimba Rembang White-necked Babbler Stachyris maculata Rimba Rembang Besar Chestnut-rumped Babbler Stachyris nigriceps Rimba Leher Kelabu Grey-throated Babbler Stachyris nigricollis Rimba Bertam Black-throated Babbler Stachyris poliocephala Rimba Kepala Kelabu Grey-headed Babbler Stachyris rufifrons Rimba Api Rufous-fronted Babbler Stachyris striolata — Spot-necked Babbler Trichastoma bicolor Rimba Sampah Ferruginous Babbler Trichastoma rostratum Rimba Telunjuk White-chested Babbler Trichastoma tickelli Rimba Ranting Buff-breasted Babbler Turdinus atrigularis — Black-throated Wren- babbler Yuhina everetti — Chestnut-crested Yuhina Yuhina zantholeuca Yuhina Perut Putih White-bellied Yuhina Brachypteryx leucophrys Murai Kakap Lesser Shortwing Brachypteryx bscure Murai Alis Putih White-browed Shortwing Chlamydochaera jefferyi — Fruithunter Copsycus stricklandii — White-crowned Shama Enicurus leschenaulti Murai Cegar Belukar White-crowned Forktail Enicurus ruficapillus Murai Cegar Chestnut-naped Forktail 

174 Laws of Malaysia ACT 716 Enicurus schistaceus Murai Cegar Berjalur Slaty-backed Forktail Luscinia calliope Murai Sawa Siberian Rubythroat Luscinia cyane Murai Siberia Siberian Blue Robin Luscinia ruficeps Murai Kepala Merah Rufous-headed Robin Monticola gularis Murai Batu Rengkong Putih White-throated Rock- thrush Monticola solitarius Murai Batu Tarung Blue Rock-thrush Myiomela leucura Murai Ekor Putih White-tailed Robin Myophonus robinsoni Murai Tiong Batu Malayan Whistling- thrush Myophonus caeruleus Murai Batu Siul Blue Whistling- thrush Oenanthe oenanthe — Northern Wheatear Saxicola caprata Murai Batu Belang Pied Bushchat Saxicola torquata Murai Batu Pejal Common Stonechat Tarsiger cyanurus Murai Belukar Orange-flanked Bush-robin Trichixos pyrropygus Murai Rimba Ekor Kuning Rufous-tailed Shama Turdus obscurus Murai Batu Kubur Eye-browed Thrush/ Grey-headed Turdus poliocephalus — Island Thrush Zoothera citrina Murai Belanda Orange-headed Thrush Zoothera dauma Murai Batu Putih Scaly Thrush/ White’s Ground Zoothera everetti Murai Batu Everett Everett’s Thrush Zoothera interpres Murai Batu Tanah Chestnut-capped Thrush Zoothera sibirica Murai Siberia Kelabu Siberian Thrush Zosteropidae Zosterops everetti Mata Putih Belukar Everett’s White-Eye Zosterops albogularis — White-chested White- eye 

 Wildlife Conservation 175 ORDER PELECANIFORMES Anhingidae Anhinga melanogaster Pependang Timur Oriental Darter Anhinga anhinga — Anhinga Fregatidae Fregata andrewsi Simbang Pulau Chrismas Christmas Island Frigatebird Fregata ariel Simbang Kecil Lesser Frigatebird Fregata minor Simbang Besar Great Frigatebird Phalacrocoracidae Phalacrocorax carbo Pependang Air Great Cormorant Phalacrocorax niger Pependang Kecil Little Cormorant Phaethontidae Phaethon aethereus — Red-billed Tropicbird Sulidae Sula dactylatra Dendang Penyamar Masked Booby Sula sula Dendang Kaki Merah Red-footed Booby Sula leucogaster Dendang Laut Brown Booby Papasula abbotti — Abbott’s Booby ORDER PICIFORMES Megalaimidae Calorhamphus fuliginosus Takur Dahan Brown Barbet Megalaima australis Takur Akar Blue-eared Barbet Megalaima chrysopogon Takur Jambang Emas Gold Whiskered Barbet Megalaima eximia Takur Borneo Bornean Barbet Megalaima franklinii Takur Leher Emas Golden-thorated Barbet Megalaima haemacephala Takur Tembaga Coopersmith Barbet Megalaima henricii Takur Mahkota Kuning Yellow-crowned Barbet Megalaima lineata Takur Kukup Lineated Barbet Megalaima monticola Takur Gunung Mountain Barbet Megalaima mystacophanos Takur Raya Red-throated Barbet Megalaima oorti Takur Bukit Black-browed Barbet 

176 Laws of Malaysia ACT 716 Megalaima pulcherrima Takur Tengkok Emas Golden-naped Barbet Megalaima rafflesii Takur Mahkota Merah Red-crowed Barbet Psilopogon pyrolophus Takur Api Fire Tufted Barbet Megalaima oorti Takur Bukit Black-browed Barbet Indicatoridae Indicator archipelagicus Gembala Lebah Malaysian Honeyguide Picidae Blythipicus pyrrhotis Belatok Bulan Bay Woodpecker Blythipicus rubiginosus Belatok Pungguk Maroon Woodpecker Campephilus imperialis — Imperial Woodpecker Celeus brachyurus Belatok Biji Nangka Rufous Woodpecker Chrysocolaptes lucidus Belatok Pinang Tua Greater Flameback Dendrocopos canicapillus Belatok Belacan Grey-capped Woodpecker Dendrocopos moluccensis Belatok Belacan Kecil Brown-capped Woodpecker Dinopium javanense Belatok Pinang Muda Common Goldenback/ Flameback Dinopium rafflesii Belatok Rimba Olive-backed Woodpecker Dryocopus javensis Belatok Gajah White-bellied Woodpecker Dryocopus javensis richardsi — Tristram’s Woodpecker Gecinulus grantia — Pale-headed Woodpecker Gecinulus viridis Belatok Buluh Bamboo Woodpecker Hemicircus concretus Belatok Punggoh Grey-and-buff Woodpecker Meiglyptes tristis Belatok Awan Buff-rumped Woodpecker Meiglyptes tukki Belatok Tuki- Tuki Buff-necked Woodpecker Mulleripicus pulverulentus Belatok Berjalur Great Slaty Woodpecker 

 Wildlife Conservation 177 Picumnus innominatus Belatok Belang Speckled Piculet Picus canus Belatok Gunung Grey-headed Woodpecker Picus chlorolophus Belatok Kecil Tenggok Kuning Lesser Yellownape Picus flavinucha Belatok Besar Tenggok Kuning Greater Yellownape Picus mentalis Belatok Ranting Checker-throated Woodpecker Picus mineaceus Belatok Merah Banded Woodpecker Picus puniceus Belatok Mas Crimson-winged Woodpecker Picus viridanus Belatok Rotan Streak-breasted Woodpecker Picus vittatus Belatok Hijau Laced Woodpecker Reinwardtipicus validus Belatok Ranum Orange-backed Woodpecker Sasia abnormis Belatok Kecil Rufous Piculet ORDER PODICIPEDIFORMES Podicipedidae Podilymbus gigas — Atitlan Grebe Tachybaptus ruficollis Grebe Kecil Little Grebe ORDER PROCELLARIIFORMES Diomedeidae Diomedea albatrus — Short-tailed Albatross Procellariidae Bulweria bulwerii — Bulwer’s Petrel Calonectris leucomelas — Streaked Shearwater Puffinus pacificus — Wedge-tailed Shearwater Hydrobatidae Oceanites oceanicus — Wilson’s Storm- petrel Oceanodroma monorhis — Swinhoe’s Storm- petrel Oceanodroma leucorhoa — Leach’s Storm-petrel ORDER PSITTACIFORMES Cacatuidae Cacatua goffini — Goffin’s Cockatoo 

178 Laws of Malaysia ACT 716 Cacatua haematuropygia — Philippine Cockatoo Cacatua moluccensis — Moluccan Cockatoo Cacatua sulphurea — Yellow-crested Cockatoo Probosciger aterrimus — Palm Cockatoo Loriidae Eos histrio — Red-and-blue Lory Vini ultramarina — Ultramarine Lorikeet Psittacidae Amazona arausiaca — Red-necked Amazon Amazona barbadensis — Yellow-shouldered Amazon Amazona brasiliensis — Red-tailed Parrot Amazona finschi — Lilac-crowned Parrot Amazona guildingii — Saint Vincent Parrot Amazona imperialis — Imperial Parrot Amazona leucocephala — Bahamas Parrot Amazona auropalliata — Yellow-naped Parrot Amazona ochrocephala — Yellow-crowned Amazon Amazona pretrei — Red-spectacled Parrot Amazona rhodocorytha — Red-browed Parrot Amazona tucumana — Tucuman Parrot Amazona versicolor — Saint Lucia Parrot Amazona vinacea — Vinaceous Parrot Amazona viridigenalis — Green-cheeked Parrot Amazona vittata — Puerto Rican Parrot Anodorhynchus leari — Lear’s Macaw Anodorhynchus spp. — Ara ambiguus — Great Green Macaw Ara glaucogularis — Blue-throated Macaw Ara macao — Scarlet Macaw 

 Wildlife Conservation 179 Ara militaris — Military Macaw Ara rubrogenys — Red-fronted Macaw Cyanopsitta spixii — Little Blue Macaw Cyanoramphus forbesi — Chatham Parakeet Cyanoramphus novaezelandiae — Red-fronted Parakeet Cyclopsitta diophthalma coxeni — Coxen’s Two-eyed Fig-parrot Eunymphicus cornutus — Horned Parakeet Pezoporus occidentalis — Night Parrot Guarouba guarouba — Golden Parakeet Neophema chrysogaster — Orange-bellied Parrot Ognorhynchus icterotis — Yellow-eared Parrot Psittacula longicauda Bayan Nuri Long-tailed Parakeet Psittinus cyanurus Bayan Puling Blue-rumped Parrot Pezoporus wallicus — Ground Parakeet Pionopsitta pileata — Pileated Parrot Propyrrhura couloni — Blue-headed Macaw Primolius maracana — Blue-winged Macaw Psephotus chrysopterygius — Golden-shouldered Parrot Psephotus dissimilis — Hooded Parrot Psephotus pulcherrimus — Paradise Parrot Psittacula eques — Mauritius Parakeet Pyrrhura cruentata — Blue-throated Parakeet Rhynchopsitta spp. — — Strigops habroptilus — Owl Parrot Tanygnathus lucionensis — Blue-naped Parrot ORDER SPHENISCIFORMES Spheniscidae Spheniscus humboldti — Peruvian Penguin 

180 Laws of Malaysia ACT 716 ORDER STRIGIFORMES Tytonidae Tyto alba Jampok Kubur Barn Owl Tyto capensis — African Grass –owl Tyto soumagnei — Madagascar Red Owl Tyto spp. — — Strigidae Aegolius spp. — — Asio flammeus Hantu Tuli Shot-eared Owl Asio spp. — — Athene blewitti Forest Little Owl Athene spp. — — Bubo coromandus Hantu Busut Dusky Eagle-owl Bubo spp. — — Bubo sumatranus Hantu Bubu Barred Eagle-owl Glaucidium brodiei Hantu Kecil Collared Owlet Glaucidium spp. — — Gymnoglaux lawrencii — Bare-legged Owl Jubula lettii — Maned Owl Ketupa ketupu Hantu Kuning Buffy Fish-owl Ketupa spp. — — Ketupa zeylonensis Hantu Ikan Brown Fish-owl Lophostrix cristata — Crested Owl Micrathene whitneyi — Elf Owl Mimizuku gurneyi — Mindanao Eagle-Owl Nesasio solomonensis — Fearful Owl Ninox natalis — Christmas Hawk-owl Ninox novaeseelandiae undulate — Norfolk Island Boobook Owl Ninox scutulata Hantu Betamak Brown Hawk-owl Ninox spp. — — Nyctea scandiaca — Snowy Owl 

 Wildlife Conservation 181 Otus bakkamoena Hantu Reban Collared Scops-owl Otus brookii — Rajah Scops-owl Otus leucotis — White-faced Scops- owl Otus mantananensis — Mantani Scops-owl Otus podarginus — Palau Scops-owl Otus rufescens Hantu Merah Reddish Scops-owl Otus sagittatus Hantu Putih White-fronted Scops- owl Otus spilocephalus Hantu Gunung Mountain Scops-owl Otus spp. — — Otus sunia Hantu Kuang Kuik Oriental Scops-owl Phodilus badius Jampok Pantai Oriental Bay-owl Phodilus prigoginei — African Bay-owl Pseudoscops clamator — Striped Owl Pseudoscops grammicus — Jamaican Owl Pulsatrix spp. — — Sceloglaux albifacies — Laughing Owl Scotopelia spp. — — Strix huhula — Black-banded Owl Strix leptogrammica Hantu Punggor Brown Wood-owl Strix nigrolineata — Black-and-white Owl Strix seloputo Hantu Carik Kafan Spotted Wood-owl Strix spp. — — Surnia ulula — Hawk Owl Uroglaux dimorpha — Papuan Boobook Xenoglaux loweryi — Long-whiskered Owlet ORDER STRUTHIONIFORMES Rheidae Rhea pennata — Lesser Rhea ORDER TINAMIFORMES 

182 Laws of Malaysia ACT 716 Tinamidae Tinamus solitarius — Solitary Tinamou ORDER TROGONIFORMES Trogonidae Harpactes kasumba Kesumba Batang Red-naped Trogon Harpactes diardii Kesumba Bukit Diard’s Trogon Harpactes orrhophaeus Kesumba Pelanduk Cinnamon-rumped Trogon Harpactes duvaucelii Kesumba Puteri Scarlet-rumped Trogon Harpactes oreskios Kesumba Harimau Orange-breasted Trogon Harpactes erythrocephalus Kesumba Gunung Red-headed Trogon Harpactes whiteheadi — Whitehead’s Trogon Pharomachrus mocinno — Magnificent Quetzal ORDER TURNICIFORMES Turnicidae Turnix suscitator Puyuh Tanah Barred Buttonquail CLASS REPTILIA ORDER CROCODYLIA Alligatoridae Alligator sinensis — China Alligator Caiman crocodilus — Spectacled Caiman Caiman crocodilus apaporiensis — Apaporis River Caiman Caiman latirostris — Broad-snouted Caiman Crocodylidae Crocodylus acutus — American Crocodile Crocodylus cataphractus — African Slender- snouted Crocodile Crocodylus intermedius — Orinoco Crocodile Crocodylus mindorensis — Philippine Crocodile Crocodylus moreletii — Morelet’s Crocodile Crocodylus niloticus — Nile Crodile Crocodylus palustris — Marsh Crocodile 

 Wildlife Conservation 183 Crocodylus porosus Buaya Tembaga Estuarine Crocodile Crocodylus rhombifer — Cuban Crocodile Crocodylus siamensis — Siamese Crocodile Melanosuchus niger — Black Caiman Osteolaemus tetraspis — African Dwarf Crocodile Tomistoma schlegelii Buaya Julung-julung Gharial Gavialidae Gavialis gangeticus — Gavial ORDER RHYNCHOCEPHALIA Sphenodontidae Sphenodon punctatus — Tuatara Sphenodon spp. — — ORDER SQUAMATA SUBORDER LACERTILIA Chamaeleonidae Brookesia perarmata Kamaleon Daun Berperisai Armoured Leaf Chameleon Kinyongia spp. — — Nadzikambia spp. — — Helodermatidae Heloderma horridum — Beaded Lizard Iguanidae Brachylophus fasciatus — Fijian Iguana Brachylophus vitiensis — Fijian Crested Iguana Brachylophus spp. — — Cyclura spp. — — Sauromalus varius — Piebald Chuckwalla Lacertidae Gallotia simonyi — Hierro Giant Lizard Varanidae Varanus bengalensis Biawak Tikus Clouded Monitor Varanus dumerilii Biawak Kudung Dumerl’s Monitor Varanus flavescens Biawak Kuning Yellow Monitor Varanus griseus Biawak Gurun Desert Monitor Varanus komodoensis Biawak Komodo Komodo Monitor Varanus nebulosus Biawak Puru Clouded Monitor 

184 Laws of Malaysia ACT 716 Varanus rudicollis Biawak Serunai Harlequin Monitor SUBORDER SERPENTES Boidae Acrantophis dumerili — Dumeril’s Boa Acrantophis madagascariensis — Madagascar Ground Boa Boa constrictor occidentalis — Boa Constrictor Epicrates inornatus Boa Pokok Kuning Yellow Tree Boa Epicrates monensis Boa Pulau Mona Mona Island Boa Epicrates subflavus Boa Jamaica Jamaican Boa Sanzinia madagascariensis Boa Pokok Madagascar Madagascar Tree Boa Bolyeriidae Bolyeria multocarinata — Round Island Burrowing Boa Casarea dussumieri — Round Island Keel- scaled Boa Pythonidae Python breitensteini — Short-tailed Python Python brongersmai Ular Sawa Darah Blood Python Python molurus molurus — Indian Python Viperidae Vipera ursinii Ular Kapak Padang Rumput Meadow Viper ORDER TESTUDINES Chelidae Chelodina mccordi — Roti Island Snake- necked Turtle Chelodina parkeri — Parker’s Snake- necked Turtle Chelodina pritchardi — Pritchard’s Snake- necked Turtle Elusor macrurus — Mary River Turtle Mesoclemmys dahli — Dahl’s Toad-headed Turtle Pseudemydura umbrina — Western Swamp Turtle Dermatemydidae Dermatemys mawii — Central American River Turtle 

 Wildlife Conservation 185 Emydidae Glyptemys muhlenbergii Kura-kura Bog Bog Turtle Graptemys flavimaculata — Yellow-blotched Map Turtle Terrapene coahuila — Aquatic Box Turtle Geoemydidae Batagur affinis Tuntung Common Batagur Batagur baska Tuntung Laut River Terrapin Batagur trivittata — Burmese Roofed Turtle Cuora trifasciata — Three-banded Box Turtle Geoclemys hamiltonii Kura-kura Kolam Hitam Black Pond Turtle Heosemys annandalii Kura Tokong Yellow -headed Temple Turtle Heosemys depressa — Arakan Forest Turtle Heosemys spinosa Kura-kura Duri Bukit Spiny Terrapin Leucocephalon yuwonoi Kura-kura Daun Sulawesi Forest Turtle Malayemys subtrijuga Jelebu Siput Ricefield Terrapin Mauremys annamensis — Annam Leaf Turtle Melanochelys tricarinata — Three-keeled Land Tortoise Morenia ocellata — Bengal Eyed Turtle Notochelys platynota Kura Punggong Datar Malayan Flat-shelled Turtle Orlitia borneensis Juku Juku Besar Malaysia Giant Tortoise Pangshura tecta — Indian Roofed Turtle Siebenrockiella leytensis — Leyte Pond Turtle Testudinidae Astrochelys radiata — Radiated Tortoise Astrochelys yniphora Kura-kura Madagascar Madagascar Tortoise Chelonoidis nigra Kura-kura Gergasi Galapagos Galapagos Giant Tortoise Geochelone platynota — Burmese Star Tortoise 

186 Laws of Malaysia ACT 716 Gopherus flavomarginatus — Bolson Tortoise Homopus signatus — Speckled Cape Tortoise Indotestudo elongata Baning Lonjong Elongated Tortoise Manouria impressa Baning Bukit Impressed Tortoise Psammobates geometricus — Geometric Tortoise Pyxis arachnoides Kura-kura Lelabah Spider Tortoise Pyxis planicauda — Flat-backed Spider Tortoise Testudo kleinmanni — Egyptian Tortoise Trionychidae Apalone spinifera — Spiny Softshell Turtle Chitra chitra Labi-labi Bintang Nutaphand’s Narrowhead Softshell Nilssonia gangeticus Labi-labi India Indian Softshell Turtle Nilssonia hurum — Peacock Soft-shell Turtle Nilssonia nigricans Labi Hitam Black Softshell Turtle Pelochelys cantorii Labi-labi Raksasa Asian Giant soft- shelled Turtle Rafetus swinhoei — Yangtze Giant Softshell Turtle Podocnemididae Erymnochelys madagascariensis — Madagascar Big- headed Turtle CLASS AMPHIBIA ORDER ANURA Bufonidae Altiphrynoides spp. — — Atelopus zeteki — Golden Arrow Poison Frog Amietophrynus superciliaris Kodok Cameroon Cameroon Toad Incilius periglenes Kodok Oren Orange Toad Nectophrynoides spp. — — 

 Wildlife Conservation 187 Nimbaphrynoides spp. — — Microhylidae Dyscophus antongilii Katak Tomato Tomato Frog Ranidae Limnonectes nitidus — Tanah Rata Wart Frog ORDER CAUDATA Cryptobranchidae Andrias spp. — — Salamandridae Neurergus kaiseri — Kaiser’s Newts CLASS ARACHNIDA ORDER ARANEAE Liphisitiidae Liphistius tioman — — CLASS INSECTA ORDER LEPIDOPTERA Papilionidae Ornithoptera alexandrae — Queen Alexandra’s Birdwing Papilio chikae — Luzon Peacock Swallowtail Papilio homerus — Homerus Swallowtail Papilio hospiton — Corsican Swallowtail CLASS GASTROPODA Achatinellidae Achatinella spp. Siput Pokok Oahu Oahu Tree Snail 

188 Laws of Malaysia ACT 716 THIRD SCHEDULE [Section 3] STANDARD OF MATURITY 1. Totally Protected Wildlife Asian Elephant–Elephas maximus–Gajah Asia: shall be deemed to be immature if the height is less than 250 cm, length of head and body is less than 400 cm. Sumatran Rhinoceros–Dicerorhinus sumatrensis–Badak Sumatra: shall be deemed to be immature if the length of head and body is less than 240 cm, length of tail is less than 65 cm, height at the shoulder is less than 100 cm and incisors in the upper jaw are absent. Gaur–Bos gaurus –Seladang: shall be deemed to be immature if the height is less than 250 cm, height at the shoulder is less than 170 cm and length of tail is less than 70 cm. Tapir–Tapirus indicus–Tapir: shall be deemed to be immature if the body is covered with yellow stripes and white spots, height at the shoulder is less than 90 cm and the length of head and body is less than 220 cm. Tiger–Panthera tigris –Harimau Belang: shall be deemed to be immature if the length of head and body is less than 170 cm, length of tail is less than 95 cm and the widest part of a canine tooth is less than 2.4 cm. Malayan Sun Bear –Helarctos malayanus –Beruang: shall be deemed to be immature if the length of head and body is less than 100 cm. Leopard, Panther–Panthera pardus–Harimau Bintang, Harimau Kumbang: shall be deemed to be immature if the lengt h of head and body is less than 108 cm and length of tail is less than 80 cm. Clouded Leopard –Neofelis nebulosa –Harimau Dahan: shall be deemed to be immature if the length of head and body is less than 65 cm and length of tail is less than 55 cm. Flat-headed Cat –Prionailurus planiceps –Kucing Hutan: shall be deemed to be immature if the length of head and body is less than 46.5 cm and length of tail is less than 12.8 cm. Serow–Capricornis sumatraensis –Kambing Gurun, Kambing Bukit, Kambing Hutan: shall be deemed to be immature if the length of head and body is less 140 cm, height at shoulder is less than 85 cm, length of tail is less than 11.5 cm and the horn measured at the outer curve is less than 12.7 cm. 

 Wildlife Conservation 189 Pangolin, Scaly Anteater –Manis javanica –Tenggiling: shall be deemed to be immature if the length of head and body is less than 42.5 cm and length of tail is less than 34 cm. Slow Loris–Nycticebus coucang–Kongkang: shall be deemed to be immature if the length of head and body is less than 30 cm and length of tail is less than 1 cm. Clouded Monitor –Varanus bengalensis –Biawak Tikus: shall be deemed to be immature if the total length, including the tail, is less than 60 cm. Harlequin Monitor –Varanus rudicollis –Biawak Serunai: shall be deemed to be immature if the total length, including the tail, is less than 60 cm. Dumeril’s Monitor –Varanus dumerilii –Biawak Kudung: shall be deemed to be immature if the total length, including the tail, is less than 60 cm. Estuarine Crocodile –Crocodylus porosus –Buaya Tembaga: shall be deemed to be immature if the total length, including the tail, is less than 180 cm. Gharial–Tomistoma schlegelii –Buaya Julung -Julung: shall be deemed to be immature if the total length, including the tail, is less than 180 cm. Blood Python –Python brongersmai –Ular Sawa Darah: shall be deemed to be immature if the total length, including the tail, is less than 75 cm. A bird shall be deemed to be immature if the offspring of the bird has not developed the capacity for flight or is not yet covered with full plummage. 2. Protected Wildlife Sambar Deer–Rusa unicolor–Rusa: shall be deemed to be immature if the length of head and body is less than 180 cm, height at shoulder is less than 140 cm, or length of tail is less than 25 cm, the antlers ar e less than 35.6 cm in length or less than 14 cm in circumference and a female shall be deemed to be immature if the height at shoulder is less than 101.6 cm. Monitor Lizard–Varanus salvator–Biawak: shall be deemed to be immature if the total length, including tail, less than 75 cm. A bird shall be deemed to be immature if the offspring of the bird has not developed the capacity for flight or is not yet covered with full plummage. 

190 Laws of Malaysia ACT 716 FOURTH SCHEDULE [section 3] POISON Rat poisons (Zinc phosphide) Sodium Arsenite (Sodium Arsenite) FIFTH SCHEDULE [Sections 3 and 117] CONTROLLED SPECIES Interpretation of the Fifth Schedule 1. Species included in this Schedule are referred to — (a) by the name of the species; or (b) as being all of the species included in a higher taxon or designated part thereof. 2. The abbreviation ―spp.‖ is used to denote all species of a higher taxon. 3. Other references to taxa higher than species are for the purposes of information or classification only. The common names in cluded after the scientific names of families are for reference only. They are intended to indicate the species within the family concerned that are included in this Schedule. In most cases this is not all of the species within the family. 4. Where there is conflict between a scientific name and a local name and a common name in the use of the name of any species in this Schedule, the scientific name shall prevail. Scientific Name Local Name Common Name CLASS MAMMALIA Vulpes vulpes — Red Fox Cervus elaphus — European Red Deer Herpestes javanicus — Small Indian Mongoose Mustela erminea — Short-Tailed Weasel Sciurus carolinensis — Gray Squirrel Myocastor coypus — Nutria 

 Wildlife Conservation 191 Trichosurus vulpecula — Brushtail Possum CLASS AVES Sturnus vulgaris — European Starling Pycnonotus cafer — Red-Vented Bulbul Columba livia — Rock Pigeon Agapornis roseicollis — Peach-faced Lovebird CLASS REPTILIA Boiga irregularis Brown Tree Snake Trachemys scripta Kura-kura telinga merah Red-eared Slider Crotalus spp. (except the species included in the Second Schedule) — — Sistrurus spp. — — Dendroaspis polylepis — Mamba CLASS AMPHIBIA Rhinella marina — American Giant Frog Eleutherodactylus coqui — Caribbean Tree Frog CLASS INSECTA Bemisia tabaci — Cotton Whitefly Cinara cupressi — Cypress Aphid Lymantria dispar — Asian Gypsy Moth Trogoderma granarium — Khapra Beetle Vespula vulgaris — Common Yellow-jacket 

192 Laws of Malaysia ACT 716 SIXTH SCHEDULE [Section 51] LIST OF WILDLIFE FOR ABORIGINE’S CONSUMPTION Scientific Name Local Name Common Name Sus scrofa Babi Hutan Wild Pig Rusa unicolor Rusa Sambar Sambar Deer Tragulus napu Napuh Large Mousedeer Tragulus javanicus Pelanduk Lesser Mousedeer Macaca nemestrina Beruk Pig-tailed Macaque Trachypithecus cristatus Lotong Kelabu Silvered-Leaf Monkey Trachypithecus obscurus Lotong Cengkong Dusky Leaf Monkey Hystrix brachyura Landak Raya Malayan Porcupine Atherurus macrourus Landak Nibong Brush-tailed Porcupine Amaurornis phoenicurus Ruak-Ruak White-breasted Waterhen Chalcophaps indica Punai tanah Emerald Dove SEVENTH SCHEDULE [section 3] SNARE Snare means any type of trap that— (a) is made of light wire cable looped through a locking device or of small nylon cord tied so that it will tighten as the animal pulls against it; (b) consists of two metal rectangles hinged together midway on the long side to open and close like scissors. One jaw has a trigger that can be baited. The opposite jaw has a catch or dog that holds the trap open; (c) is triggered by a pan -tension device, the weight of an animal stepping between the jaws of the trap causes the jaws to slam and strangulate the victim’s leg or other body part in a vicelike grip. 

193 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 716 WILDLIFE CONSERVATION ACT 2010 LIST OF AMENDMENTS Amending law Short title In force from P.U.(A)103/2012 Wildlife Conservation (Amendment of Schedule) Order 2012 212012 P.U.(A)108/2014 Wildlife Conservation (Amendment of Schedule) Order 2014 182014 

194 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 716 WILDLIFE CONSERVATION ACT 2010 LIST OF SECTIONS AMENDED Section Amending authority In force from Schedule 1 P.U.(A) 103/2012 212012 P.U.(A) 108/2014 182014 Schedule 2 P.U.(A) 103/2012 212012 Schedule 3 P.U.(A) 103/2012 212012 Schedule 5 P.U.(A) 103/2012 212012 Schedule 6 P.U.(A) 103/2012 212012 Schedule 7 P.U.(A) 103/2012 212012