LAWS OF MALAYSIA ONLINE VERSION OF UPDATED TEXT OF REPRINT Act 50 MEDICAL ACT 1971 As at 23 August 2022 This text is ONLY AN UPDATED TEXT of the Medical Act 1971 by the Attorney General’s Chambers. Unless and until reprinted pursuant to the powers of the Commissioner of Law Revision under subsection 14(1) of the Revision of Laws Act 1968 [Act 1], this text is NOT AN AUTHENTIC TEXT.

2 MEDICAL ACT 1971 Date of Royal Assent … … … 27 September 1971 Date of publication in the Gazette … … … 30 September 1971 Latest amendment made by P.U. (A) 266/2022 which came into operation on … … … 23 August 2022 PREVIOUS REPRINTS First Reprint … … … … … 1982 Second Reprint … … … … … 1993 Third Reprint … … … … … 1999 Fourth Reprint … … … … … 2006 Fifth Reprint … … … … … 2020 

3 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 50 MEDICAL ACT 1971 ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS PART I PRELIMINARY Section 1. Short title 2. Interpretation PART II THE MALAYSIAN MEDICAL COUNCIL 3. Establishment of the Council 3A. Composition of the Council 3B. Tenure of office 3C. Revocation of appointment and resignation 3D. Vacation of office and filling of vacancy 3E. Power of Minister to appoint members of the Council 3F. Disqualification from nomination and appointment or election 3G. Suspension of member of the Council 4. Functions of the Council 4A. Powers of the Council 4B. Appointment of employees of the Council 4C. Chief Executive Officer 4D. Common seal 

4 Laws of Malaysia ACT 50 Section 4E. Committees of the Council 4F. Delegation of Council’s functions and powers 4G. Disclosure of interest 4H. The Malaysian Medical Council Fund 4I. Expenditure to be charged on the Fund 4J. Conversation of the Fund 5. Public Authorities Protection 6. Public servants 7. First Schedule 8. Power of the Minister to issue directions 9. Returns, etc. PART III REGISTRATION OF MEDICAL PRACTITIONERS 10. Registrar 11. Malaysian Medical Register 12. Persons entitled to provisional registration 13. Experience which a provisionally registered person shall be required to obtain 14. Persons entitled to full registration 14A. Registered medical practitioner practising as specialist 14B. Person entitled to registration as specialist 14C. Registration as specialist 15. Exemption of certain medical officers in ships 16. Temporary practising certificate 17. Evidence of qualification to be given before entry on the Register 18. Application for registration 19. Restriction on registration 20. Annual practising certificate 21. List of fully registered medical practitioner issued with annual practicing certificates 

Medical 5 Section 22. Change in permanent address and service of notice, etc. 23. Power of Council to make certain endorsement against names in the Register 24. Removal of names from Register 24A. Reinstatement of names in Register 25. Alterations in the Register 26. Privileges of fully registered persons 27. Certificates and documents 28. Definition PART IV DISCIPLINARY PROCEEDINGS 29. Disciplinary jurisdiction of the Council 29A. Interim orders 30. Disciplinary punishments 31. Appeal against orders of the Council 31A. Restoration of name to Register PART V GENERAL 32. Fraudulent registration 33. Offences 34. Traditional and Complementary medicine 34A. Examination and treatment of patients by students of medicine 34B. Liability of the Government for torts committed by non -Government practitioners while attending to patients at the request of or by arrangement with the Government 34C. Medical practitioner authorized by Director General to be deemed a Government Medical Officer 35. General penalty 

6 Laws of Malaysia ACT 50 Section 35A. Council may require information PART VI REGULATIONS, SAVING AND REPEAL 36. Regulations 37. Saving 38. Repeal PART VII SUPPLEMENTARY PROVISIONS FOR NATIONAL PURPOSES 39. Purpose, commencement and duration of this Part 40. Notice to fully registered person to serve in a medical capacity in the public services 41. Period of service in pursuance of a notice under subsection 40(1) 42. Power of Minister to grant reduction, exemption or postponement from period of service under section 41 43. Minister may make rules 44. Saving FIRST SCHEDULE SECOND SCHEDULE THIRD SCHEDULE 

7 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 50 MEDICAL ACT 1971 An Act to consolidate and amend the law relating to the registration of medical practitioners, the control and regulation of the practice of medicine, to provide for certain provisions with regard to a period of service in the public services after full registration as a medical practitioner; and to make provisions for matters connected thereto. [Throughout Malaysia—1 October 1971] BE IT ENACTED by the Seri Paduka Baginda Yang di -Pertuan Agong with the advice and consent of the Dewan Negara and Dewan Rakyat in Parliament assembled, and by the authority of the same, as follows: PART I PRELIMINARY Short title 1. This Act may be cited as the Medical Act 1971. Interpretation 2. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires— “certificate” means either the certificate of provisional registration, certificate of full registration, certificate of registration as a specialist, practicing certificate, temporary practicing certificate or any other 

8 Laws of Malaysia ACT 50 certificates as may be determined by the Council from time to time and issued under the Act; “Chief Executive Officer” means the Chief Executive Officer of the Council appointed under section 4 C who shall act as the Secretary of the Council; “Council” means the Malaysian Medical Council established under section 3; “Director General” means the Director General of Health, Malaysia; “fully registered” means fully registered under section 14; “fully registered medical practitioner” means a medical practitioner issued with a certificate of full registration under section 14; “Fund” means the Malaysian Medical Council Fund established under section 4H; “healthcare facility” means any premises in which one or more members of the public receive healthcare services”; “houseman training” means the period of training in resident medical practice for the purpose of being fully registered medical practitioner; “member” means a member of the Malaysian Medical Council established under section 3; “Minister” means the Minister charged with the responsibility for health; “practising certificate” means the annual practising certificate issued under section 20; “prescribed” means prescribed by regulations made under this Act; “President” means the President of the Malaysian Medical Council; 

Medical 9 “Professional Indemnity Cover” means a financial security for a registered medical practitioner in a professional liability action; “provisionally registered” means provisionally registered under section 12; “provisionally registered medical practitioner ” means a medical practitioner issued with certificate of provisional registration under section 12; “public services” has the meaning assigned to it in Article 132 of the Constitution and, in addition, it also means the service of any local authority or the service of any statutory authority exercising powers vested in it by federal or State law, and the expression “public service” shall be construed accordingly; “qualification” means any diploma, degree, fellowship, membership, licence, authority to pra ctise, letters, testimonial, certificate or other status or document granted by any university, corporation, college or other body, or by any department of, or persons acting under the authority of, the government of any country or place in or outside Malaysia; “recognized specialist qualification” means a qualification conferred by any recognized training institution; “recognized training institution” means a higher education provider as defined under section 2 of the Malaysian Qualification Agency Act 2007 [Act 679] for the purpose of registration under section 4 of this Act; “Register” means the Malaysian Medical Register under section 11; “registered” means provisionally registered under section 12 or fully registered under section 14, as the case may be; “registered medical practitioner” means a medical practitioner issued with provisional registration under section 12 or full registration under section 14; 

10 Laws of Malaysia ACT 50 “Registrar” means the Registrar of Medical Practitioners referred to in section 10; “Specialist” means a fully registered medical practitioner under section 14C; “temporary practicing certificate” means the temporary practicing certificate issued under section 16; “traditional and complementary medicine” means a form of health-related practice designed to prevent, treat or manage ailments or illness or preserve the mental and physical well -being of an individual and includes such practices as traditional Malay medicine, traditional Chinese medicine, traditional Indian medicine, homeopathy, and complementary therapies, but excludes medical or dental practices used by a registered medical or dental practitioner. PART II THE MALAYSIAN MEDICAL COUNCIL Establishment of the Council 3. (1) A body corporate by the name of “Malaysian Medical Council” is established. (2) The Council shall have perpetual succession and a common seal. (3) The Council may sue and be sued in its corporate name. (4) Subject to and for the purposes of this Act and upon such terms as it deems fit, the Council may― (a) enter into contracts; (b) acquire, purchase, take, lease, hold, sell and enjoy movable and immovable property of every description; and 

Medical 11 (c) convey, assign, surrender, yield up, charge, mortgage, demise, reassign, transfer, or otherwise dispose of, or deal with, any movable or immovable property, vested in the Council. Composition of the Council 3A. (1) The Council shall consist of the following members: (a) the Director General who shall be the President; (b) nine fully registered medical practitioners from the representatives of recognized local universities and university colleges to be nominated from among the members of the faculty by the governing bodies of the respective recognized local universities and university colleges and appointed by the Minister; (c) three fully registered medical practitioners from the private sector to be nominated by the Council and appointed by the Minister; (d) three fully registered medical practitioners from the public services to be nominated by the Director General and appointed by the Minister; (e) fifteen fully registered medical practitioners resident in Peninsular Malaysia to be elected by the fully registered medical practitioners resident in Peninsular Malaysia; (f) one fully registered medical practitioner resident in Sabah to be elected by the fully registered medical practitioners resident in Sabah; and (g) one fully registered medical practitioner resident in Sarawak to be elected by the fully registered medical practitioners resident in Sarawak. 

12 Laws of Malaysia ACT 50 (2) No person shall be appointed to be a member under paragraph (1) (b), (c) or (d) or elected as a member under paragraph (1)(e), (f) or (g) unless the person is a citizen of Malaysia and holds a current and valid practising certificate. (3) No person shall be e ligible to elect a member under paragraph (1)(e), (f) or (g) unless the person is a citizen of Malaysia and holds a current and valid practising certificate. (4) The election of the members referred to in paragraphs (1) (e), (f) and (g) shall be conducted in such manner as may be prescribed. (5) No person shall serve as an appointed and elected member at the same time. (6) A person may be appointed to be a member under paragraph (1)(b), (c) or (d) or elected under paragraph (1)(e), (f) or (g) notwithstanding that he has previously been a member under paragraph (1)(b), (c), (d), (e), (f) or (g). (7) For the purpose of this section, “resident” refers to the principal place of practice as stipulated in the medical practitioner’s current and valid practising certificate. Tenure of office 3B. (1) Subject to such conditions as may be specified in his instrument of appointment, a member of the Council appointe d under paragraph 3A(1)(b), (c) or (d) or elected under paragraph 3 A(1)(e), (f) or (g) shall, unless he sooner resigns or vacates his office or his appointment is sooner revoked, hold office for a t erm not exceeding three years. (2) A member of the Coun cil appointed under paragraph 3 A(1)(b), (c) or (d) or elected under paragraph 3A(1)(e), (f) or (g) shall be eligible for reappointment or reelection. 

Medical 13 Revocation of appointment and resignation 3C. (1) The appointment of any member of the Council unde r paragraph 3 A(1)(b), (c) or (d) may, at any time, be revoked by the Minister after consulting the President. (2) A member of the Council appointed under paragraph 3A(1)(b), (c) or (d) or elected under paragraph 3 A(1)(e), (f) or (g) may at any time resign his office by a written notice addressed to the President. Vacation of office and filling of vacancy 3D. (1) The office of a member of the Council shall be vacated if— (a) he dies; (b) there has been proved against him, or he has been convicted in Malaysia or elsewhere on a charge in respect of— (i) an offence involving fraud, dishonesty or moral turpitude; or (ii) an offence under any law relating to corruption; or (iii) any other offence punishable with imprisonment (whether in itself only or in addition to or in lieu of a fine); (c) he becomes a bankrupt; (d) he is of unsound mind or is otherwise incapable of discharging his duties; (e) he absents himself from three consecutiv e meetings of the Council or if he attends less than fifty percent of meetings in a year without leave of the President; 

14 Laws of Malaysia ACT 50 (f) his name has been struck off from the Register or has since been removed from the Register of medical practitioners maintained in any place outside Malaysia; (g) his resignation is accepted by the President; (h) he is no longer resident in the constituency that elected him; or (i) his appointment is revoked by the Minister. (2) Where a member of the Cou ncil appointed under paragraph 3A(1)(b), (c) or (d) or elected under paragraph 3 A(1)(e), (f) or (g) dies before completion of his term of office, or resigns, or otherwise ceases to be a member by reason of any provision of this Act, a person shall be appointed or elected, as the case may be, in his place in accordance with the provisions applying in the case of the person dying or resigning or ceasing to be a member for the residue of the term for which such person might have held office if he had not died or resigned or ceased to be a member. (3) Notwithstanding subsection (2), the vacancy in the office of any member elected under paragraph 3A(1)(e), (f) or (g) shall not be filled for the residue of that term where the death, resignation or ceasing to be a member occurs within twelve months before the date on which his term of office would have come to an end by effluxion of time. (4) The Council shall not be prevented from performing any of its functions and powers under this Act by any vacancy in its membership. Power of Minister to appoint members of the Council 3E. (1) If any of the bodies or p ersons referred to in paragraph 3A(1)(b), (c), (d), (e), (f) or (g) does not, by such date as may be prescribed, nominate or elect, as the case may be, a person to be a member of the Council, the Minister shall appoint in his place as a member a person qualified to be so nominated or elected and any person so appointed shall be deemed to be a member as if he had been duly nominated or elected, as the case may be, by such body or person. 

Medical 15 (2) On the coming into operation of this Act and until such time as the members referred to in paragraphs 3A(1)(b), (c), (d), (e), (f) and (g) are nominated or elected, as the case may be, the Minister shall appoint in their place respecti vely such persons as are qualified to be nominated or elected and the persons so appointed shall be deemed to be members as if they had been duly nominat ed or elected under paragraphs 3A(1)(b), (c), (d), (e), (f) and (g). Disqualification from nomination and appointment or election 3F. (1) A fully registered medical practitioner shall not be qualified to be nominated, appointed or elected to be a member under paragraph 3A(1)(b), (c), (d), (e), (f) or (g) if— (a) he has been found guilty by a court of any offence involving fraud, dishonesty or moral turpitude, or of any offence punishable with imprisonment (whether in itself only or in addition to or in lieu of a fine); or (b) he is a bankrupt; or (c) his name has at any time been struck off from the Register or has since been removed from the Register of medical practitioners maintained in any place outside Malaysia. (2) A fully registered medical practitioner whose name has been suspended from the Register, or who has been reprimanded under section 30 shall not be eligible to be nominated, appointed or elected, as the case may be, under paragraph 3A(1)(b), (c), (d), (e), (f) or (g)— (a) in the case of a suspension, for a period of six years after the expiration of such suspension; or (b) in the case of a reprimand, for a period of six years from the date of such reprimand. (3) If a member who has been nominated and appointed or elected under the Act is disqualified to be nominated and appointed or elected under this Act, he shall be deemed to have vacated his seat. 

16 Laws of Malaysia ACT 50 Suspension of member of the Council 3G. (1) Where the Council in the exercise of its disciplinary jurisdiction under this Act— (a) appoints a committee to conduct a preliminary investigation; or (b) holds a disciplinary inquiry, in respect of a fully registered medical practitioner who is a member of the Council, such member shall be suspended as a member of the Council. (2) The suspension referred to in subsection (1) shall— (a) in the case of a preliminary investigation, take effect from the date of commencement of the investigation; or (b) in the case of a disciplinary inquiry, take effect from the date of institution of the inquiry. (3) Where at the conclusion of a preliminary investigation the Council determines that a disciplinary inquiry be held, the period of suspension of a member shall continue until the conclusion of the disciplinary inquiry. (4) A member of the Council who has been suspended under subsection (1) shall forthwith be reinstated as member if at the conclusion of the preliminary investigation or the disciplinary inquiry, as the case may be, the Council finds that no case has been mad e out in respect of the member. (5) A member of the Council who is to be re instated pursuant to subsection (4) shall, if the reinstatement is to take effect before the expiration of his term of office, be reinstated to hold office for the unexpired period of his term of office. 

Medical 17 Functions of the Council 4. The Council shall have the following functions: (a) to register medical practitioners; and (b) to regulate the practice of medicine. Powers of the Council 4A. (1) The Council shall have the power to do all things expedient or reasonably necessary for or in cidental to the carrying out of its functions under this Act. (2) Without prejudice to the generality of subsection (1), the powers of the Council shall include power to— (a) ensure that the provisions of this Act and the regulations are administered, enforced, given effect to, carried out and complied with; (b) regulate the standards of practice of registered medical practitioners; (c) regulate the professional conduct and ethics of registered medical practitioners; (d) approve or refuse any application for registration or certification in accordance with this Act or regulations; (e) determine any fees or fines payable; (f) issue certificates; (g) borrow or raise money from time to time by bank overdraft or otherwise for any of the purposes specified in this section; and 

18 Laws of Malaysia ACT 50 (h) recognize and accredit medical qualifications based upon the recommendation of the Joint Technical Committee establish under Ma laysian Qualifications Agency Act 2007 for the purpose of registration. Appointment of employees of the Council 4B. (1) The Council may appoint or employ such number of employees as the Council may thinks necessary, who shall be paid such remuneration, allowances and benefits, and whose appointment or employment shall be on such terms and conditions as the Council considers appropriate for carrying out the purpose of this Act. (2) No person shall be elig ible for appointment or employment as an employee of the Council if he has, directly or indirectly, by himself or through his partner any share or interest in any contract or proposed contract with, for or on behalf of the Council. Chief Executive Officer 4C. (1) The President shall, after consultation with the Council, appoint a Chief Executive Officer. (2) The Council shall vest in the Chief Executive Officer such powers and impose upon him such duties as may be determined by the Council. (3) The Chief Executive Officer shall be the Secretary to the Council and be responsible for— (a) the overall administration and management of the functions and the day-to-day affairs of the Council; (b) carrying out the decisions and directions of the Council; (c) managing the functions, programmes, employees and other resources of the Council; and 

Medical 19 (d) preparing strategic plans and budgets for the consideration of the Council. (4) The Chief Executive Officer shall have general control of the employees of the Council. (5) In carrying out his duties under this section, the Chief Executive Officer shall act under the general authority and direction of the Council. (6) The President may, after consultation with the Council, appoint any officer of the Council to carry out the duties of the Chief Executive Officer— (a) if for any period the Chief Executive Officer is unable, by reason of illness, leave of absence or any other reason, to carry out his duties; or (b) during any period of vacancy in the office of the Chief Executive Officer. Common seal 4D. (1) The common seal of the Council shall bear a device as approved by the Council and the seal may from time to time be broken, changed, altered and made anew as the Council thinks fit. (2) The common seal shall be kept in custody of the Chief Executive Officer or such other person as may be authorised by the Council and shall be authenticated by either the Chief Executive Officer or such person as may be authorized by the Council in writing. (3) All deeds, documents and other instruments purporting to be sealed with the common seal and duly authenticated shall, until the contrary is proven, be deemed to have been validly executed. (4) Any deed, document and other instrument which, if executed by a person not being a body corporate, is not required to be under seal 

20 Laws of Malaysia ACT 50 may in like manner be executed by the Council or an employee of the Council authorized in that behalf. (5) The common seal of the Council shall be officially and judicially noticed. Committees of the Council 4E. (1) The Council may establish any committee as it considers necessary or expedient to assist it in the performance of its functions. (2) The Council may elect any of its members to be the chairman of a committee. (3) The Council may appoint any person to be a member of a committee. (4) The quorum of any such committee shall be three, unless otherwise determined by the Council. (5) A member of a committee shall hold office for such term as may be specified in his le tter of appointment and is eligible for reappointment. (6) The Council may revoke the appointment of any member of a committee without assigning any reason for the revocation. (7) A member of a committee may, at any time, resign by giving notice in writing to the President of the Council. (8) The Council may, at any time, discontinue or alter the constitution of a committee. (9) A committee shall be subject to, and act in accordance with, any direction given to it by the Council. (10) The meetings of a committee shall be held at such times and places as the chairman of the committee may determine. 

Medical 21 (11) A committee shall cause— (a) minutes of all its meetings to be maintained an d kept in proper form; and (b) copies of the minutes of all its meetings to be submitted to the Council as soon as practicable. (12) A committee may invite any person to attend any of its meetings for the purpose of advising it on any matter under discussion but that person shall not be entitled to vote at the meeting. (13) Members of a committee and any person invited under subsection (12) shall be paid such allowances and other expenses as the Council may determine after consultation with the Minister. Delegation of Council’s functions and powers 4F. (1) The Council may, in writing, delegate any of its functions and powers, except its power to make subsidiary legislation, to— (a) the Chairman; (b) a member of the Council; or (c) a committee. (2) Any person delegated with such function and power shall be bound to observe and have regard to all conditions and restrictions imposed by the Council and all requirements, procedures and matters specified by the Council. (3) Any function and power delega ted under this section shall be performed and exercised in the name and on behalf of the Council. (4) The delegation under this section shall not preclude the Council itself from performing or exercising at any time any of the delegated functions and powers. 

22 Laws of Malaysia ACT 50 Disclosure of interest 4G. A member of the Council or any committee established under section 4E who has or acquires a direct or indirect interest whether by himself, a member of his family or his associate in relation to any matter under discussion by the Council or committee shall disclose to the Council or committee, as the case may be, the fact o f his interest and the nature of that interest. The Malaysian Medical Council Fund 4H. (1) A fund to be known as the “Malaysian Medical Council Fund” to be controlled and administered by the Council is established. (2) The Fund shall consist of— (a) such sums as may be provided by the Government for the purposes of this Act from time to time; (b) all fees and charges imposed by or payable to the Council in accordance with this Act; (c) all moneys earned from services provided by the Council in accordance with this Act; (d) all moneys derived as income f rom investments by the Council; (e) all moneys derived from the sale, disposal, lease or hire of, or any other dealing with, any property, mor tgages, charges or debentures vested in or acquired by the Council; (f) all other moneys and property which may in any manner become payable to or vested in the Council in respect of any matter incidental to its functions and powers; and (g) all other moneys lawfully received by the Council under this Act, including interest. 

Medical 23 Expenditure to be charged on the Fund 4I. The Fund shall be expended for the following purposes: (a) paying any expenditure lawfully incurred by the Council; (b) paying for the remuneration, allowances and other expenses of the members of the Council, members of committees and employees of the Council; (c) paying any expenses, costs or expenditure in relation to the procurement of goods and services, including the engagement of consultants, legal fees and costs and other fees and costs, lawfully incurred or accepted by the Council in the performance of its functions and the exercise of its powers under this Act; and (d) generally, paying any other expenses for carrying into effect the provisions of this Act. Conservation of the Fund 4J. It shall be the duty of the Council to conserve the Fund by so performing its functions and exercising its powers under this Act to secure that the total revenue of the Council are sufficient to meet all sums properly chargeable to its revenue account, including depreciation and interest on capital, taking one year with another. Public Authorities Protection 5. The Public Authorities Protection Act 1948 [ Act 198] shall apply to any action, suit, prosecution or proceeding against the Council or against any member, officer, servant or agent of the Council in respect of any act, neglect or default done or committed by him in such capacity. 

24 Laws of Malaysia ACT 50 Public servants 6. All members of the Council, while discharging their duties as such members, shall be deemed to be public servants within the meaning of the Penal Code [Act 574]. First Schedule 7. (1) The First Schedule shall apply to the Council and the proceedings thereof. (2) The Minister may from time to time, after consulting the Council, amend the First Schedule by order published in the Gazette. Power of the Minister to issue directions 8. The Minister may, from time to time, issue general directions not inconsistent with th e provisions of this Act or any regulations made thereunder and the Council shall give effect to such directions. Returns, etc. 9. The Council shall furnish the Minister with all such returns , reports, accounts and information with respect to its activities as he may require from time to time. PART III REGISTRATION OF MEDICAL PRACTITIONERS Registrar 10. (1) For the purposes of this Act there shall be a Registrar of Medical Practitioners. (2) The Director General shall be the Registrar. 

Medical 25 Malaysian Medical Register 11. (1) The Registrar shall cause to be kept in the prescribed form a register of medical practitioners to be known as the Malaysian Medical Register which shall contain such particulars as may be prescribed. (2) The Registrar shall be responsible for the maintenance and custody of the Register in accordance with the provisions of this Act and the regulations thereunder. (3) The Register shall be deemed to be a public document within the meaning of the Evidence Act 1950 [Act 56]. Persons entitled to provisional registration 12. (1) Subject to this Act and the regulations thereunder, a person shall be entitled to be provisionally registered as a medical practitioner, solely for the purpose of obtaining the experience specified in section 13, upon application to the Registrar in the prescribed form if— (a) he holds— (i) any of the qualifications specified in the third column of the Second Schedule granted by an institution specified in relation to that qualification in the second column of that Schedule for a duration of recognition that shall be determined by the Council; or (ii) a qualification in medicine and surgery other than the qualifications referred to in subparagraph (i), deemed suitable for registration by the Minister after consulting the Council; (aa) in the case of a person who holds a qualification referred to in subparagraph (a)(ii), he has passed such examination as may be prescribed or set for the purpose of this paragraph by a body approved by the Minister; (aaa) he is a citizen or spouse of a citizen or a permanent resident; 

26 Laws of Malaysia ACT 50 (b) he produces to the Registrar evidence to the satisfaction of the Registrar that, subject to his being provisionally registered, he has been selected— (i) for employment under subsection 13(2 ) or that he is eligible to be exempted therefrom under subsection 13(6). (ii) (Deleted by Act A840). (c) he has proven to the satisfaction of the Council that he is fit and is of good character. (2) The Minister may from time to time, after consulting the Council, add to, delete from or amend the Second Schedule by order published in the Gazette. (3) An application for provisional registration as a medical practitioner shall be made to the Registrar in the specified form and manner and be accompanied by the documents and particulars and payment of a fee as may be determined by the Council. Experience which a provisionally registered person shall be required to obtain 13. (1) Subject to this Act and the regulations thereunder, a person who is provisionally registered shall be required to obtain experience as provided in subsection (2) in order to be entitled to apply for full registration under section 14. (1A) For the purposes of subsection (2) there shall be established a committee to be known as the Medical Qualifying Committee consisting of the following members: (a) the President as Chairman; (b) four members of the Council nominated from and representing the recognized local universities and university colleges and appointed by the Chairman; 

Medical 27 (c) four representatives from the Ministry of Health; and (d) four other members of the Council nominated from those not representing the recognized local universities and university colleges and appointed by the Chairman. (2) The provisionally registered person shall, immediately upon being provisionally registered, engage in employment in a resident medical capacity to the satisfaction of the Medical Qualifying Committee for a period of not less than one year in any hospital or institution in Malaysia whi ch is approved by the said Committee for the purpose of such employment; four months of such period shall be spent in a resident surgical post, four months in a resident medical post and four months in a resident obstetrical and gynaecological post; at the conclusion of satisfactory service, as certified by the Medical Qualifying Committee, under this paragraph, the provisionally registered person shall be entitled to a certificate issued by the Council in the prescribed form as determined by the Council from time to time. (3) (Deleted by Act A840). (4) Where, on application in that behalf, a person satisfies the Council that by reason of lasting physical disability or any other reason as determined by the Council he will be or has been prevented from embarking on, or completing, any period of experience of the practice of surgery or obstetrics and gynaecology required for the purpose of subsection (2), the Council may, if it thinks fit, direct that the applicant may for those purposes count in lieu thereof experience of the practice of medicine (in addition to what would otherwise be required in his case for those purposes) acquired in the like manner and for the like period, or, as the case may be, for so much of that period as will have remained uncompleted. (4A) Notwithstanding paragraph 12(1) (aaa), the Council may consider any person who is a non-citizen and not a spouse of a citizen studying in any recognized local training institution to be provisionally registered for the purpose of obtaining the experience as provided in subsection (2). (5) (Deleted by Act A840). 

28 Laws of Malaysia ACT 50 (6) The Council may exempt from subsection (2) any person who holds any of the qualifications referred to in paragraph 12(1)(a) if the Council is satisfied that such person has had experience which is not less both in character and scope and in length of time than the experience mentioned in subsection (2): Provided that if the Council is further satisfied that such experience has been had in an institution or hospital approved by the institution which granted the qualification, it shall exempt such person from subsection (2): And provided further that if the experience which has been had in an institution or hospital approved by the institution which granted the qualification is only partly of the character and scope mentioned in subsection (2), the Council may exempt such person from subsection (2) in respect of such part only of the period of experience required thereunder as the Council may deem fit. (7) A provisionally registered person shall be deemed to be fully registered under this Act so far as is necessary— (a) to enable him to enter upon and engage in the employment and service mentioned in subsection (2); and (b) for the purpose of any such written law or such other purposes, as the Minister may direct by order published in the Gazette, but not further. (8) A provisionally registered person shall , during the period of employment under subsection (2) , be deemed to be a public servant within the meaning of the Penal Code. (9) In this section , the reference to employment in a resident medical capacity shall be construed as reference to employment in the practice of medicine, where the person in question is resident in the hospital or institution where he is employed or conveniently near thereto, and is by the terms of his employment required to be so resident. 

Medical 29 Persons entitled to full registration 14. (1) Subject to this Act, no person shall be entitled to be fully registered as a medical practitioner under this Act unless— (a) he has been provisionally registered under section 12; (b) he has submitted a certificate issued under subsection 13(2); and (c) he has proven to the satisfaction of the Council that he is fit and of good character. (2) An application for full registration as a medical practitioner shall be made to the Council in the specified form and manner and be accompanied by such documents or particulars and payment of a fee as may be determined by the Council. (2A) Notwithstanding subsection (1), any person may be fully registered under this section subject to such restrictions and conditions as may be stipulated by the Council if— (a) such person intends to teach, do research or pursue a post-graduate course in a spe cialty area under such recognized training programme in any recogni zed training institution; (b) such person possesses medical or surgical skill which the Council considers to be of international standing or to be of special value to the country; or (c) such person possesses qualifications which in the opinion of the Council are adequate, for so long as he continues to engage himself exclusively in teaching, research or postgraduate study, as the case may be. (2B) The registration granted under subsection (2 A) shall be for a period not exceeding two years and may be renewed at the discretion of the Council for further periods, each not exceeding one year. 

30 Laws of Malaysia ACT 50 (2C) The Council may, at any time, cancel any registra tion granted under subsection (2A) if such person has been found to have violated any condition of his registration. (3) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Act, any person may be fully registered under this section subject to such restrictions and conditions, including qualification, location, place and type of practice provided that the person seeking registration under this subsection possesses a qualification with respect to which the Minister, after consulting the Council, is satisfied that it is adequate. Registered medical practitioner practising as specialist 14A. (1) No person whose name has not been entered into the Register shall practise as a specialist in that specialty. (2) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be subjected to the disciplinary jurisdiction of the Council. Person entitled to registration as specialist 14B. A person is entitled to be registered as a specialist under this Act if— (a) he has been fully registered under section 14; (b) he has attended specialized training in that specialty in a recognized training institution; (c) he holds a recognized specialist qualification; and (d) he has proven to the satisfaction of the Council that he is fit and is of good character. 

Medical 31 Registration as specialist 14C. (1) The Council shall consider the application made under subsection 18(1) and may require the applicant to produce further information or documents in support of the application. (2) Where the Council decides to approve the application, the Council shall direct the Registrar to enter the applicant’s name in the Register. (3) The Council may refuse to register any such person as it thinks fit. (4) Where the Council refuses to register the applicant under subsection (3), the Council shall immediately serve a notice of refusal to the applicant, together with the reasons therefor. Exemption of certain medical officers in ships 15. All ship’s surgeons while in the discharge of t heir duties shall be exempted from registration under this Act and shall be entitled to all the privileges of fully registered medical practitioners under this Act. Temporary practising certificate 16. (1) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Act, the Council may, upon application in writing, issue to a person who is registered as a medical practitioner outside Malaysia a temporary practising certificate, subject to such conditions and restrictions as the Council may specify in such certificate. (1A) The Council may refuse the application made under subsection (1). (1B) The temporary practising certificate issued under subsection (1) shall be valid for a period not exceeding three months from the date the certificate is issued. 

32 Laws of Malaysia ACT 50 (1C) A temporary practising certificate issued under subsection (1) may be renewed on application made in the form and manner and upon payment of such fee as may be determined by the Council. (2) The person issued with a temporary practising certificate under subsection (1) shall be deemed a registered medical practitioner. (3) The Council may at any time cancel any temporary practising certificate issued under subsection (1) if such registered person has been found to have violated any conditions or restrictions of his registration. (4) The Council shall maintain a record of all temporary practising certificates issued. (5) Any person who practises without a temporary practising certificate under subsection (1) commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable— (a) in respect of a first offence, to a fine not exceeding ten thousand ringgit; and (b) in respect of a second or subsequent offence, to a fine not exceeding twenty thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding six months or to both. (6) In the case of a continuing offence, such person shall be liable to a further penalty of one hundred ringgit for each day during which the offence continues in addition to the respective penalty under paragraphs (5)(a) and 5(b). Evidence of qualification to be given before entry on the Register 17. (1) No degree or qualification shall be entered on the Register, either on the first registration or by way of addition to a registered name, unless the Registrar be satisfied by such evidence as he may consider proper that the person claiming such degree or qualification is entitled thereto. 

Medical 33 (2) Every person registered under this Act who obtains any medical qualification other than the qualification by virtue of which he was registered may apply to the Council to amend the Register so far as it relates to the qualifications of that person, and on any such application the Council shall, if satisfied that the applicant is entitled to the qualification in respect of which the application is made and that such qualification is of sufficient standing to warrant its being entered in the Register, cause the Register to be amended accordingly by the insertion therein of the particulars of such qualification. (3) The Council shall have power to decide what higher degrees and additional qualifications shall be admitted to be entered on the Register. Application for registration 18. (1) Any person entitled to be registered under this Act may apply to the Registrar for registration accordingly. (2) Applications for such registration shall be made in such manner or form and shall be accompanied by such documents, particulars and fees as the Council may prescribe. Restriction on registration 19. (1) If any person applying for registration has— (a) at any time been found guilty of an offence involving fraud, dishonesty or moral turpitude or an offence punishable with imprisonment (whether in itself only or in addition to or in lieu of a fine); or (b) after due inquiry by the Disciplinary Board, been found by it to have been guilty of serious professional misconduct; or (c) after due inquiry by a Fitness to Practise Committee, which shall consist of not less than three medical practitioners appointed by the Council, been found to be unfit to perform 

34 Laws of Malaysia ACT 50 his professional duties by reason of his mental or physical condition or any other medical condition, the Council may direct the Registrar not to enter the name of such person upon the Register. (2) The Registrar shall forthwith give the person concerned notice in writing of such direction by the Council not to enter such person’s name upon the Register. (3) Upon any inquiry under paragraph (1)(b), the applicant shall be entitled to appear before the Council and be heard personally or by advocate and solicitor. Annual practising certificate 20. (1) Any fully registered person who desires to practise as a medical practitioner after the thirty-first day of December of any year and who produces evidence of having satisfied any requirements or restrictions stipulated by the Council shall, not later than the first day of December of that year, make an application in the prescribed form, produce evidence of professional indemnity cover and pay the prescribed fee for a certificate to practise as a medical practitioner during the ensuing year. (2) Upon such application and payment, the Registrar shall issue a certificate (to be styled “annual practising certificate”) with terms and conditions determined by the Council authorizing the applicant to practise as a medical practitioner during the year for which the certificate is issued. (3) Subject to this Act, the annual practising certificate shall be in force until 31 December of the year in respect of which it is issued. (4) Any fully registered person w ho fails to apply for an annual practising certificate in the manner and within the period laid down in subsection (1), may, on making an application in such form and on payment of such additional fee as may be prescribed, be granted an annual practising certificate for the ensuing year, if the application is 

Medical 35 made during the month of December of any year, or for the remainder of the year, if the application is made on or after 1 January of any year. (5) Upon being fully registered under section 14, a perso n who desires to practise as a medical practitioner shall immediately comply with subsection (1). (6) An annual practising certificate and an application therefor shall specify the address of the principal place of practice and all other places of practice of the applicant, except in the case of a registered medical practitioner without a fixed place of practice ( locum tenens) where the fact shall be so stated and approved by the Council, and any change in any such address shall be notified by the practitioner to the Registrar and an endorsement of such change on the annual practising certificate obtained from the Registrar within thirty days of such change. (7) A fully registered medical practitioner who practises medicine and who— (a) does not possess a current and valid annual practising certificate in respect of himself; (b) is in partnership with a fully registered person not having such a certificate; (c) has in his employ a fully registered person not having such a certificate; or (d) is employed to carry on a medical practice on behalf of a person not having such a certificate, shall be guilty of an offence against this Act and he shall not be entitled to recover any fee, reward, disbursement or cost incurred during the time when he or any other person as aforesaid has not had an annual practising certificate. 

36 Laws of Malaysia ACT 50 List of fully registered medical practitioners issued with annual practicing certificates 21. (1) The Registrar shall maintain a list or lists of the names, addresses, qualifications, dates of the qualifications and dates of full registration of all persons to whom annual practising certificates have been issued for that year. (2) The list shall be prima facie evidence of the particulars contained therein. (3) Such certificate under the hand of the Registrar of the particulars appearing in the Register in respect of any person shall be conclusive evidence of such particulars. Change in permanent address and service of notice, etc. 22. (1) Every registered person shall notify any change in the permanent address of his residence or practice to the Registrar within thirty days of such change. (2) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be subjected to the disciplinary jurisdiction of the Council. (3) Where any notice or correspondence is to be served or sent to a registered medical practitioner, it shall be deemed to have been served or sent to him if it is served or sent by post to his last-known address. Power of Council to make certain endorsement against names in the Register 23. Where the Council has made any order against a medical practitioner or is satisfied that any person whose name appears in the Register is deceased or is no longer practising medicine in Malaysia, it shall make an endorsement accordingly against his name in the Register. 

Medical 37 Removal of names from Register 24. (1) Where the Council is satisfied that a person who is provisionally registered under section 12— (a) is not or is no longer attending houseman training; or (b) has contravened any condition or restriction imposed upon him, the Council may revoke the provisional registration of such person and order his name to be removed from the Register. (2) The Council may remove from the Register the name of any fully registered medical practitioner who— (a) is proved to the satisfaction of the Council to be a deceased person; (b) is proved to the satisfaction of the Council incapable, by reason of physical or mental infirmity, or profound incompetence, of carrying out his duties as a medical practitioner; (c) has not applied to the Registrar for renewal of his practising certificate for six years consecutively; (d) has been registered through an error as to his qualifications for registration, and was not at the time of his registration entitled to be registered; (e) has been registered by fraudulent means; (f) has contravened or f ailed to comply with any condition or restriction imposed by the Council; (g) has completed his term or contract with the Malaysian Government or such body or organization for such period as may be specified and approved by the Council; or 

38 Laws of Malaysia ACT 50 (h) has had his regi stration withdrawn, suspended or cancelled from the Register of medical practitioners maintained in any place outside Malaysia or from any professional register maintained in any place inside or outside Malaysia, and shall make an endorsement accordingly against the medical practitioner’s name in the Register. (3) The Registrar shall publish in the Gazette the name of every registered medical practitioner whose name has been removed from the Register. (4) For the purpose of satisfying itself that any registered medical practitioner is incapable of carrying out his duties as a medical practitioner under paragraph (2)(b), the Council shall appoint a Fitness to Practise Committee which shall consist of not less than three registered medical practitioners, one of whom shall be a specialist related to the illness, to inquire into each case and to make such recommendations as the Committee deems proper. (5) Notwithstanding subsection (4), the Fitness to Practise Committee may recommend to the Council for restrictions to be imposed in the carrying out of duties by the registered medical practitioner. Reinstatement of names in Register 24A. (1) Where the name of a medical practitioner has been removed from the Register in accordance with section 24, he may apply to the Council for his name to be reinstated in the Register. (2) The Council may, in its discretion, upon application made under subsection (1), order the name of the applicant to be reinstated in the Register or reject the reinstatement of the name by giving reasons therefor. (3) Any person who has ceased to be registered under this Act under paragraph 24(2)(b) shall not be reinstated unless he has been certified fit by a Fitness to Practise Committee. 

Medical 39 (4) The Council may impose such conditions and restrictions as it deems fit to the reinstatement. (5) Any person whose application has been rejected under subsection (2) may appeal to the Minister within thirty days from the date of the decision. (6) The decision of the Minister shall be final. Alterations in the Register 25. (1) The Registrar shall, from time to time, insert in the Register— (a) any alteration which may come to his knowledge in the name or address of any person registered under this Act; (b) such alterations in the qualifications, additional qualifications and other particulars as under this Act are required to be altered. (2) The Register shall, from time to time, strike off from the Register the name of such person as under this Act is required to be struck off. Privileges of fully registered persons 26. (1) Every person whose name is for the time being borne on the Register as fully registered under this Act shall be entitled, according to his qualifications, to practise medicine in accordance with the provisions of this Act and to recover in due course of law reasonable charges for professional aid, advice and visits and the value of any medicine or any medical or surgical appliances rendered, made or supplied by him to his patients, provided that at the time of performing any such act he had an annual practising certificate in force. (2) Subject to sections 15, 16 and 34, no person shall be entitled to recover in any court any suc h charges as are referred to in 

40 Laws of Malaysia ACT 50 subsection (1) unless at the date when such charges accrued he was a fully registered medical practitioner and had an annual practising certificate in force. Certificates and documents 27. No certificate or other document required by any written law to be signed by a duly qualified medical practitioner given after the commencement of this Act shall be valid unless signed by a fully registered medical practitioner. Definition 28. The words “legally qualified medical practitioner” or “duly qualified medical practitioner” or any words importing a person recognized by law as a medical practitioner or member of the medical profession, when used in any written law with reference to such persons, shall be construed to mean a fully registered medical practitioner. PART IV DISCIPLINARY PROCEEDINGS Disciplinary jurisdiction of the Council 29. (1) The Council shall have disciplinary jurisdiction over all persons registered under this Act. (2) The Council may exercise disciplinary jurisdiction over any registered person who— (a) has been convicted in Malaysia or elsewhere of any offence punishable with imprisonment (whether in itself only or in addition to or in lieu of a fine); 

Medical 41 (aa) has had his qualification withdrawn or cancelled by the awarding authority through which it was acquired or by which it was awarded; (b) has been alleged to have committed serious professional misconduct as stipulated in the Code of Professional Conduct and any other guidelines and directives issued by the Council; (c) has obtained registration by fraud or misrepresentation; (d) was not at the time of his registration entitled to be registered; or (e) has since been removed from the register of medical practitioners maintained in any place outside Malaysia. (3) The Council shall establish a mechanism, including the establishment of a Disciplinary Panel, to inquire into complaints or information received against a medical practitioner. (4) For the purpose of this section, Disciplinary Panel means a panel, members of which shall be appointed by the Council and from which members of the Preliminary Investigation Committee and Disciplinary Board shall be drawn. Interim orders 29A. (1) Where upon due inquiry into any complaint or information referred to it, a Disciplinary Board is satisfied that it is necessary for the protection of the members of the public or it is otherwise in the public interest, or it is in the interest of a registered medical practitioner for his registration to be suspended or to be made subject to conditions, the Board may make an order— (a) that his registration in the appropriate register be suspended for such period not exceeding twelve months as may be specified in the order (referred to in this Part as an interim suspension order); or 

42 Laws of Malaysia ACT 50 (b) that his registration be continued on his compliance, during such period not exceeding twelve months as may be specified in the order, of such requirement as the Disciplinary Boa rd thinks fit to impose (referred to in this Part as an order for interim restricted registration). (2) The Registrar shall immediately serve a notification of the order under subsection (1) on the registered medical practitioner. (3) Subject to subsection (1), where a Disciplinary Board has made an order under this section, the Disciplinary Board or another Disciplinary Board appointed in its place— (a) shall review it within a period of six months beginning on the date on which the order was made, and shall thereafter, for so long as the order continues in force, further review it before the end of a period of three months beginning on the date of the decision of the immediately preceding review; and (b) may review it where new evidence rel evant to the order has become available after the making of the order. (4) Where an interim suspension order or an order for interim restricted registration has been made under this section in relation to any person, the Disciplinary Board that made the order or another Disciplinary Board appointed in its place under subsection (3) may— (a) revoke the order or revoke any condition imposed by the order; (b) make an order varying any condition imposed by the order; (c) if satisfied that to do so is necessary for the protection of members of the public or is otherwise in the public interest, or is in the interest of the registered medical practitioner concerned, or that the registered medical practitioner has not complied with any requirement imposed as a condition of his registration in the order for interim restricted registration, replace that order with the interim suspension order having effect for the remainder of the former; or 

Medical 43 (d) if satisfied that the public interest or the interest of the registered medical practitioner concerned would be more adequately served by an order for interim restricted registration, replace the interim suspension with an order for interim restricted registration having effect for the remainder of the period of the former. (5) The Registrar shall immediately serve a notification of the decision under subsection (4) on the registered medical practitioner. (6) The Disciplinary Board may apply to the President for an order made under subsect ion (1) to be extended, and may apply again for further extension. (7) On such an application, the President may extend (or further extend) for up to six months the period for which the order has effect. (8) An interim suspension order or an order for i nterim restricted registration shall be in force until— (a) the end of the period specified in the order or, if extended under subsection (7), in the order extending it; or (b) the date on which proceedings are concluded, whichever is the earlier. (9) While a person’s registration in the Register is suspended by virtue of an interim suspension order, he shall not be regarded as being registered notwithstanding that his name still appears in the Register. (10) Immediately upon the expiry or revocation of the order, the person’s rights and privileges as a registered medical practitioner shall be revived from the date of such expiry or revocation, provided that he has complied with all the terms of the order. (11) Any registered medical practitioner who is aggrieved by the decision of the Disciplinary Board or President under this section may appeal in writing to the Minister. 

44 Laws of Malaysia ACT 50 (12) The Minister may confirm, reverse or vary the decision of Disciplinary Board or President. (13) The Minister’s decision on any appeal under subsection (11) shall be final and binding. Disciplinary punishments 30. (1) The Council may, in the exercise of its disciplinary jurisdiction, impose any of the following punishments: (a) reprimand the medical practitioner; (b) order such medical practitioner’s registration to be subjected to conditions which may include but are not limited to one or more of the following: (i) that the medical practitioner seek medical treatment; (ii) that such conditions relating to the medical practitioner’s practice of medicine as it considers appropriate be imposed on the medical practitioner’s registration; (iii) that the medical practitioner undergo educational courses or programmes as may be specifie d by the Council; or (iv) that the medical practitioner report on his medical practice to such medical practitioner or persons as may be specified by the Council; (c) order the name of such medical practitioner to be suspended from the Register for such period as it thinks fit; (d) make such order in paragraph (c) but suspend the application thereof, subject to such conditions as the Council may think fit, for a period, or periods in the aggregate, not exceeding two years; or 

Medical 45 (e) order the name of such medical practitioner to be struck off the Register. (2) The Council may also impose a fine as may be decided by the Council in addition to the punishments in subsection (1). (3) No registered medical practitioner shall practise a s a medical practitioner during the period of suspension under paragraph (1)(c). (4) Any person who fails to comply with any order made under subsection (1) shall be subject to further disciplinary proceeding. (5) The Council may, in any case, make such order as the Council thinks fit with regard to the payment of the costs of the Registrar and of any complainant or of a medical practitioner, and any costs awarded may be recovered as a civil debt. Appeal against orders of the Council 31. (1) Any person who is aggrieved by any order made in respect of him by the Council in the exercise of its disciplinary jurisdiction may appeal to the High Court, and the High Court may thereupon affirm, reverse or vary the order appealed against or may give such direction in the matter as it thinks proper; the cost of the appeal shall be in the discretion of the High Court. (2) (Deleted by Act A1443). (3) The practice in relation to any such appeal shall be subject to the rules of court applicable in the High Court: Provided that the High Court shall not have power to hear any appeal against an order made under section 30 unless notice of such appeal was given within one month of the service of the order in the prescribed manner. 

46 Laws of Malaysia ACT 50 Restoration of name to Register 31A. (1) No person whose name has been struck off from the Register under paragraph 30(1)(e) shall thereafter be entitled to be registered as a medical practitioner under the provision of this Act, but the Council may, if it thinks fit in any case to do so, on the application of the person concerned, order that the name of such person be restored to the Register provided that a period of three years shall have elapsed since the order was made ; and where the name of a person has been suspended from the Register under paragraph 30(1) (c), such person shall be entitled at the expiration of period of suspension, but not earlier, to apply for the certificate of registration and the annual practising certificate (if the perio d for which it is issued is still unexpired) to be returned to him. (2) An application under subsection (1) shall be made in such manner or form and accompanied by such documents, photographs, particulars and fees as may be prescribed. PART V GENERAL Fraudulent registration 32. Every person who fraudulently procures or attempts to procure himself or any other person to be registered by making or producing, or causing to be made or produced, any false or fraudulent representation or declaration, eithe r oral or in writing, shall be guilty of an offence against this Act and shall, on conviction, be liable in respect of a first offence to a fine not exceeding fifty thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding two years and in respect of a second or subsequent offence to a fine not exceeding one hundred thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding three years or to both. 

Medical 47 Offences 33. (1) Any person not registered or exempted from registration under this Act who— (a) wilfully and falsely pretends to be registered under this Act or to be qualified to practise medicine or surgery; (b) wilfully and falsely takes or uses the name or title of physician, doctor of medicine, licentiate in medicine and surgery, bachelor of medici ne, surgeon, general practitioner or apothecary; (c) wilfully and falsely takes or uses any name, title, addition or description implying that he is registered under this Act, or that he is recognized by law as a physician or surgeon or licentiate in medicine and surgery or a practitioner in medicine or an apothecary; (d) wilfully and falsely takes or uses any name, title, addition or description, or uses any instrument, calculated to induce any person to believe that he is qualified to practise medicine or surgery according to modern scientific methods; (e) practises medicine or surgery; (f) uses the term “clinic” or “dispensary” or “hospital” or the equivalent of any of these terms in any other language in the signboard over his place of practice in purported practice of medicine or surgery as a person registered under this Act; or (g) uses a symbol designed by the Council for the use of registered medical practitioners only, shall be guilty of an offence against this Act and shall, on conviction, be liable in respect o f a first offence to a fine not exceeding fifty thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding two years and in respect of a second or subsequent offence to a fine not exceeding one hundred thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding three years or to both. 

48 Laws of Malaysia ACT 50 (2) For the purposes of subsection (1)— (a) the taking or using by any person of the term “doctor” or “clinic” or “dispensary” or “hospital” or the equivalent of any of these terms in any other language in relation to the practice of medicine or surgery shall be deemed to be the taking or using of a name, title, addition or description calculated to induce any person to believe that he is qualified to practise medicine or surgery according to modern scientific methods; and (b) subject to regulations made under paragraph 36(2) (p), the using by any person in the practice of medicine or surgery of a sphygmomano meter, stethoscope, hypodermic syringe or other instrument used by persons qualified to practice medicine or surgery according to modern scientific methods, shall be deemed to be the using of instruments calculated to induce a person to believe that he is qualified to practise medicine or surgery according to modern scientific methods. Traditional and Complementary medicine 34. (1) Subject to subsection (2) and regulations made under this Act, nothing in this Act shall be deemed to affect the right of any person under any law in force in Malaysia or any part thereof, not being a person taking or using any name, title, addit ion or description calculated to induce any person to believe that he is qualified to practise medicine or surgery according to modern scientific methods, to practise traditional and complementary medicine. (2) Notwithstanding subsection (1), no person, unless he is a registered medical practitioner, shall hold himself out as being qualified, competent or willing to undertake the treatment of diseases of the human eye or the prescription of remedies therefor, or the giving of advice in connection with the treatment thereof: Provided that nothing in this section shall be taken to prohibit a person who is not a registered medical practitioner from holding himself out as being qualified, competent or willing to test refraction, 

Medical 49 visual acuity and colour vision, or to make or provide spectacles or other optical appliances for the remedy of defects of vision. (3) Any person who contravenes subsection (2) shall be guilty of an offence against this Act. Examination and treatment of patients by students of medicine 34A. (1) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Act, it shall be lawful for any person who is pursuing a course of study in medicine or surgery in— (a) any University or University College established in accordance with the Universities and University Colleges Act 1971 [Act 30]; or (b) any educational institution specified in the Third Schedule, to carry out, in pursuance of the course of study, any investigation, examination or treatment of patients in any hospital, clinic, health centre or other institution which is approved by the Minister for the purposes of this section by notification in the Gazette; provided that the investigation, examination or treatment is carried out by the person under the control and supervision of a fully reg istered medical practitioner who holds a current and valid annual practising certificate. (2) For the purposes of paragraph (1)(b), no educational institution shall be specified in the Third Schedule unless— (a) it is an educational institution registered under the *Education Act 1996 [Act 550] or any law in connection with the registration of an educational institution; and (b) is affiliated with any institution specified in the second column of the Second Schedule for the purpose of granting to the students of the educational institution the specified qualification appearing against the institution. *NOTE—This Act has replaced Education Act 1961 [Act 43/1961] – see section 155 Act 550. 

50 Laws of Malaysia ACT 50 (3) Any healthcare facility and services managed and operated by the Government and approved by the Minister under subsection (1) shall not be liable for any injury, loss or damage of a civil nature occasioned to any patient or other person solely in consequence of any investigation, examination or treatment of patient under subsection (1) by a person pursuing a course of study in medicine or surgery specified under subsection (1); provided that nothing in this subsection shall be construed as conferring on the person or on the University or University College or approved educational institution where he is pursuing the undergraduate course of study or on any of ficer or employee of the University or University College or approved educational institution any immunity from any liability for such injury, loss or damage. (4) The Minister may amend the Third Schedule by a notification in the Gazette. Liability of the Government for torts committed by non-Government practitioners while attending to patients at the request of or by arrangement with the Government 34B. A medical practitioner who holds a current and valid annual practising certificate, who is not a public officer and who, at the request of or by arrangement with the Government, carries out any investigation, examination, treatment or management of any patient in any Government healthcare facility and services shall, while carrying out such investigation, examination, treatment or management, be deemed to be a public officer for the purposes of section 5 of the Government Proceedings Act 1956 [ Act 359 ]; and notwithstanding subsection 6(4) of the Act, proceedings may be brought against the Government in respect of any act, neglect or default of such practitioner done or committed in the course of or in connection with such investigation, examination, treatment or management. 

Medical 51 Medical practitioner authorized by Director General to be deemed a Government Medical Officer 34C. (1) The Director General may authorize in writing any medical practitioner who is registered under section 14 and not being a medical practitioner in the public service to undertake any of the following functions, that is─ (a) investigation, examination, treatment or management of any patient; or (b) perform an autopsy or post -mortem investigation of any deceased person, in any healthcare facility and services. (1A) The Director General may delegate his power under subsection (1) to any State Health Director or an equivalent officer. (2) A medical practitioner who is autho rized under subsection (1) or (1A) to perform any of the functions referred to in paragraphs (1)(a) and (b) shall be deemed to be a Government Medical Officer for the purposes of the Criminal Procedure Code [ Act 593 ] and any other relevant laws in Malaysia. General penalty 35. (1) Any person guilty of an offence against this Act for which no specific penalty is provided shall, on conviction, be liable— (a) in respect of a first offence , to a fine not exceeding ten thousand ringgit; and (b) in respect of the second or subsequent offences, to a fine not exceeding twenty thousand ringgit or imprisonment for a term not exceeding six years or both such fine and imprisonment. 

52 Laws of Malaysia ACT 50 (2) In the case of a continuing offence , such person shall be liable to a further penalty of one hundred ringgit for each day during the continuance of such offence in addition to the respective penalty under paragraphs (1)(a) and (b). Council may require information 35A. (1) The Council may, from time to time, call for such information as it may require to be furnished by any person whose name is on the Register and such person shall furnish the information within thirty days of being required to do so. (2) Every person whose name is on the Register shall, within thirty days of any change in the particulars he has furnished to the Council, notify the Council of the change. (3) A registered medical practitioner who fails to comply with subsection (1) in respect of himself shall be guilty of an offence. PART VI REGULATIONS, SAVING AND REPEAL Regulations 36. (1) Subject to this Act, the Council may, with the approval of the Minister, make regulations to prescribe anything which under this Act is required to be prescribed, and generally to carry out the objects and purposes of this Act. (2) In particular and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing powers, such regulations may prescribe— (a) the duties of the Registrar; (b) the form of the Register, the mode in which it shall be kept and the contents thereof; 

Medical 53 (c) the fees to be paid in respect of applications and proceedings under this Act and in respect of certificates and other documents issued under this Act and provide for such exemptions therefrom as the Council may deem appropriate; (d) the form and manner in which applications for registration and for annual practising certificates shall be made; (e) the form of any certificate or other document required for carrying out the purposes of this Act; (f) the manner of proof of qualifications in medicine and surgery; (g) the management of the property of the Council and the audit of its accounts; (h) the duties to be performed by the Secretary; (i) the issue of medical certificates of illness or death; (j) the procedure for the election of members of the Council; (k) the securing of legal advice by the Council, the provision of legal advisers therefor, the qualifications and functions of such legal advisers and the remuneration to be paid to them; (l) the procedure for the appointment of the committees or boards of the Council; (m) the procedure at meetings, inquiries and other proceedings of the Council, Board or Committee; (n) the procedure to be followed in relation to Preliminary Investigation Committees and Disciplinary Boards under this Act; (o) the names, titles, additions or descriptions which it shall or shall not be permissible for persons practising Traditional and Complementary Medicine to take or use; 

54 Laws of Malaysia ACT 50 (p) exemptions from the application of paragraph 33(2)(b) in respect of the use of specific instruments by specific persons or classes of persons, subject to such restrictions and conditions as may be specified; (q) the conditions or restrictions to be imposed on certificates of provisional registration, certificates of full registration, certificates of full registration of registered medical practitioners trained in specialized areas, temporary practising certificates and annual practising certificates; (r) the keeping of the Register, records, reports and documents and the form and contents thereof; (s) the form of certificates of provisional registration, certificates of registration, temporary practising certificates and renewals of practising certificates; (t) the form and manner of conducting examination for the purpose of admission to the Register; (u) the form and manner in recognising the training institution and the qualification awarded by the recognized training institution; (v) the houseman training, the condition under which the practical training of apprentices or students shall be conducted and a ny other matter relating to the training and qualification of medical practitioners; (w) the form and manner of approving the medical practitioners trained in specialized areas; (x) the procedure for the establishment of a Disciplinary Panel from which members of Preliminary Investigation Committees and Disciplinary Boards are to be drawn; (y) the receipt of complaints or information touching on any disciplinary matter that may be investigated into by the 

Medical 55 Preliminary Investigation Committees to determine whether or not there shall be an inquiry; (z) the procedure for the inquiry by the Disciplinary Board; (aa) the formation of a Fitness to Practise Committee for complaints or information pertaining to registered medical practitioners who are professionally incompetent o r are impaired by physical or mental disability; (bb) the formation of an Evaluation Committee for the purpose of evaluation and registration of medical practitioners; (cc) the formation of an Ethics Committee to advise the Council on issues related to ethics; (dd) any other committee for the purposes of this Act; and (ee) any other matter for carrying into the effect the objects and purposes of this Act. Saving 37. (1) Subject to subsection (2), every medical practitioner who immediately before the coming into force of the Emergency (Essential Powers) Ordinance No. 65, 1971 [ P.U. (A)11/1971] was registered (otherwise than provisionally) under the Medical Registration Ordinance 1952 of the States of Malaya [F.M. 69 of 1952], the Medical Registration Ordinance of Sabah [Cap. 76] or the Medical Registration Ordinance of Sarawak [ Cap. 112] or was employed in Sabah by the Government of Malaysia or the Government of the State of Sabah as a Medical Officer shall, on the coming into force of this Act, be deemed to be a fully registered medical practitioner under the provisions of this Act and shall be deemed to have an annual practising certificate in respect of the remainder of the year in which this Act comes into force: Provided that in the case of a medical practitioner who immediately before the coming into force of the Emergency (Essential Powers) Ordinance No. 65, 1971 was registered (otherwise than provisionally) 

56 Laws of Malaysia ACT 50 by virtue of paragraph 9(1) (c) of the Medical Registration Ordinance 1952 of the States of Malaya or subsection 9(2) of the said Ordinance or paragraph 5(1) (d) of the Medical Registration Ordinance of Sarawak, he shall be deemed to be a fully registered medical practitioner under the provisions of this Act only to the extent and subject to the conditions and restrictions operative in respect of his registration under the said Ordinances of the States of Malaya and Sarawak respectively: Provided further that in the case of a medical practitioner who immediately before the coming into force of the Emergency (Essential Powers) Ordinance No. 65, 1971 was exempted from registration by virtue of paragraph 17 (e) of the Medical Registration Ordinance of Sabah, he shall be entitled upon application to the Registrar to be fully registered under this Act subject to such terms and conditions as the Council may direct. (2) Every person who immediately before the coming into force of the Emergency (Essential Powers) Ordinance No. 65, 1971— (a) was provisionally registered under the provisions of any of the Medic al Registration Ordinances mentioned in subsection (1); or (b) was undergoing a period of service under paragraph 10(d) of the Medical Registration Ordinance 1952 of the States of Malaya or paragraph 5(1) (e) of the Medical Registration Ordinance of Sarawak, shall be deemed to be provisionally registered under section 12 of this Act and shall be liable to subsection 13(1) of this Act: Provided, however, that— (a) any period of employment in a resident medical capacity which he may have undergone shall be counted towards the period of employment in a resident medical capacity referred to in subsection 13(2) of this Act. (b) (Deleted by Act A840). 

Medical 57 (3) Every person who before the coming into force of this Act was registered under any of the provisions of the Emergency (Essential Powers) Ordinance No. 65, 1971 shall be deemed to have been registered under the corresponding provision of this Act, and this Act shall apply to him in as full and ample a manner as they would apply to him if he had obtained registration under the said corresponding provision of this Act. (4) Any certificate (including any annual practicing certificate), notice, application, other document, rule, order, regulation, direction, exemption, period of employment or service, proceeding, appointment, or act issued, given, served, made, granted, undergone, taken or done before the coming into force of this Act under any of the provisions of the Emergency (Essential Powers) Ordinance No. 65, 1971 shall, if it could have been issued, given, served, made, granted, undergone, taken or done under any corresponding provision of this Act, continue to operate, and have the like effect, as if it has been so issued, given, served, made, granted, undergone, taken or done, as the case may be. (5) The Minister may by rules make such provision as he may consider necessary or expedient for the purpose of removing any difficulties occasioned by the coming into force of this Act or in the application of subsections (1) to (4), and any such rule may be made so as to have effect as from the coming into force of this Act; and subsections (1) to (4) shall accordingly be deemed to be subject to this subsection. (6) Notwithstanding anything contained in subsections (1) to (5), where a person was immediately before the coming into force of the Emergency (Essential Powers) Ordinance No. 65, 1971 deemed to be registered under section 30 of the Medical Registration Ordinance 1952, of the States of Malaya, he shall not be deemed to be registered under this Act unless within a perio d of six months from the date of coming into force of this Act— (a) he makes an application in writing to the Registrar to be deemed to be registered under this Act; and 

58 Laws of Malaysia ACT 50 (b) he satisfies the Registrar that he was immediately before the date of coming into force of the Emergency (Essential Powers) Ordinance No. 65, 1971— (i) ordinarily resident in Peninsular Malaysia; and (ii) actually engaged in the practice of medicine or surgery in Peninsular Malaysia, and where he has so satisfied the Registrar , he shall be deemed to be registered under this Act subject to the same qualifications, conditions and restrictions as were operative in his case under the said section 30: Provided that the Registrar may, in any particular case, if he considers it just and reasonable to do so, extend the said period of six months to such extent as he considers appropriate in the circumstances of the case: And provided further that the Registrar may, in his absolute discretion, in any particular case or class of cases, wh ere it comes to his knowledge that in such case or class of cases the person or persons concerned were, at any time before the date of coming into force of the Emergency (Essential Powers) Ordinance No. 65, 1971, deemed to be registered under the said sect ion 30 and were ordinarily resident in Peninsular Malaysia and actually engaged in the practice of medicine or surgery in Peninsular Malaysia, deem such person to be registered under this Act, notwithstanding that such person may not have made an application to be deemed to be so registered. Repeal 38. The Emergency (Essential Powers) Ordinance No. 65, 1971, the Medical Registration Ordinance 1952 of the States of Malaya, the Medical Registration Ordinance of Sabah and the Medical Registration Ordinance of Sarawak are hereby repealed. 

Medical 59 *PART VII SUPPLEMENTARY PROVISIONS FOR NATIONAL PURPOSES Purpose, commencement and duration of this Part 39. (1) It is declared that this Part is enacted for national purposes. (2) This Part shall cease to be in force if Parliament, by resolution passed by each of the Houses of Parliament and published in the Gazette, provide that this Part shall no longer continue to remain in force. Notice to fully registered person to serve in a medical capacity in the public services 40. (1) Every person who obtains full registration under this Act shall be liable immediately upon being fully registered or at any time thereafter to be served with a written notice issued by or on behalf of the Director General requiring such person to assume appointment in a medical capacity in such post in such public service and on such date, as may, in each of these respects, be specified in the notice. (2) A person served with a notice under subsection (1) shall comply with such notice and if he fails to do so he shall be guilty of an offence under this Act. (3) Immediately upon a charge under subsection (2) or under section 41 being proved in court against any person, the registration of such person under section 14 shall be deemed to be revoked, and the Registrar shall accordingly strike off from the Register the name of such person. (4) (a) Where the name of a person is struck off from the Register under subsection (3), it shall not be restored on the Register except upon a direction given by the Minister, and the Minister may give such *NOTE—This Part shall be deemed to hav e come into force on 01 1986–see subsection 12(1) Act A840. 

60 Laws of Malaysia ACT 50 direction upon an application in writing being made to him by the person whose name has been struck off from the Register. (b) Any direction so given may be made subject to the fulfilment of such terms and conditions as the Minister may deem fit to impose, and such terms and conditions requiring such person to serve in a medical capacity to the satisfaction of the Director General for a continuous total period of not less than two years in such post in such one or more of the public services as may from time to time be determined by the Director General in his discretion. (c) While such person is fulfilling the terms and conditions imposed under this subsection, he shall be deemed to be fully registered so far as is necessary to fulfil the terms and conditions imposed under this subsection and for such other purposes as the Minister may direct, but no further; and upon fulfilment of the terms and conditions imposed under this subsection, he shall be entitled to a certificate issued by the Director General as evidence thereof. (5) The decision of the Minister upon an application made to him under subsection (4) for the restoration of a name upon the Register shall be final and shall not be questioned or reviewed in any court whatsoever. (6) Where a notice under subsection (1) has been served on any person liable to be served therewith, the Director General may at any time cancel the notice and, if he thinks fit, cause to be served on him a further notice under subsection (1). Period of service in pursuance of a notice under subsection 40(1) 41. A person who commences to serve in a post in a public service in pursuance of a notice issued under subsection 40(1) shall continue to serve in the said post or in such other subsequent post in the same or such other public service as may from time to time be determined by the Director General in his discretion for a continuous total period of not less than two years to the satisfaction of the Director General and if he fails to do so, he shall be guilty of an offence under this Act. 

Medical 61 Power of Minister to grant reduction, exemption or postponement from period of service under section 41 42. (1) The Minister may— (a) in respect of any particular person; (b) generally in respect of any class of persons during such period as he may specify; (c) generally in respect of all persons during such period as he may specify, grant such reduction as he may consider appropriate or complete exemption from the period of service required under section 41. (2) The Minister may, upon application being made to him in writing by any person liable to undergo the period of service required under section 41, grant to such person postponement from commencing such service for such period as he may consider appropriate if he is satisfied that it would be just and reasonable to do so. (3) The decision of the Minister upon an application made to him under subsection (2) shall be final and shall not be questioned or reviewed in any court whatsoever. Minister may make rules 43. The Minister may make rules for carrying into effect the objects and purposes of this Part. Saving 44. (1) Anything done under section 40, 41, 42 or 43 of the Emergency (Essential Powers) Ordinance No. 65, 1971 shall be deemed to have been done under section 40, 41, 42 or 43, respectively, 

62 Laws of Malaysia ACT 50 of this Act and shall, accordingly continue to operate and have effect under such respective sections of this Act. (2) Subsection 37(4) and (5) shall apply to this Part a nd in such application they shall be construed as being in amplification of subsection (1) of this section. (3) Nothing in subsection (1) shall have the effect of rendering any person liable to any penalty in respect of any omission to comply with, or in respect of any act done contrary to subsection 40(2) and section 41. 

Medical 63 FIRST SCHEDULE [Section 7] SUPPLEMENTARY PROVISIONS RELATING TO THE COUNCIL President of Council and procedure at meetings 1. (1) The Director General shall be the President of the Council. (2) The President, if present, shall be the Chairman at meetings of the Council: Provided that if the President shall be absent from any meeting of the Council the members present at such meeting shall elect one of themselves to act as chairman at that meeting. (3) The quorum for a meeting of the Council shall be twelve, and the decisions of the Council shall be by a simple majority of the members present and voting. (4) Every member of the Council present shall be entitled to one vote. (5) The Chairman at any meeting shall have an original vote and also if upon any question the votes shall be equally divided, a casting vote. (6) The Council may invite any person to attend a meeting or deliberation of the Council for the purpose of advising it on any matter under discussion but that person shall not be entitled to vote at the meeting or deliberation. (7) A person invited under paragraph (6) may be paid such allowances as the Council may determine. (8) Every meeting of the Council in respect of the proceedings of which minutes have been so made shall be deemed to have been duly convened and held and all members present thereat to have been duly qualified to act. (9) Minutes made of meetings of the Council shall, if duly signed, be admissible in evidence in all legal proceedings without further proof. (10) Subject to this Act, the Council may make standing orders to regulate its own procedure generally, and in particular, regarding the holding of meetings, the notice to be given of such meetings, the proceedings thereat, the keeping of minutes and the custody, production and inspection of such minutes. 

64 Laws of Malaysia ACT 50 Meetings of the Council 2. (1) The Council shall meet at least six times in a year; and a meeting shall be held in the month of March of each year to receive and adopt the audited annual statement of accounts. (1A) Meetings of the Council shall be convened by notice in writing by the President to the other members and the meetings shall be held at the times and places specified in the notice. (2) Where not less than ten members submit to the President a written request to convene a meeting of the Council for a specified purpose, the President shall convene such meeting within one month of the receipt of such request. (2A) At least fourteen days, notice in writing of the meeting referred to in subsections (1) and (2) shall be given to the members. (3) (Deleted by Act A1443). (4) When any vacancy occurs amongst the members, the Council shall, as soon as practicable, take the necessary action to fill such vacancy. (5) (Deleted by Act A1443). (6) There shall be paid to all members of the Council such fees for attendance at meetings of the Council or of any committee appointed by the Council and such reasonable travelling expenses and subsistence allowances for such attendance and for journeys undertaken in the discharge of their duties under this Act or any other expenses as the Council may determine with the approval of the Minister from time to time. (7) (Deleted by Act A1443). 3. (Deleted by Act A1443). 4. (Deleted by Act A1443). 5. (Deleted by Act A1443). 

Medical 65 SECOND SCHEDULE [Subparagraph 12(1)(a)(i)] LIST OF REGISTRABLE QUALIFICATIONS Country in which qualification is granted Name of Institution granting qualification Description of qualification Malaysia … MAHSA University Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery (recognized on 6 June 2014) Universiti Kuala Lumpur - Royal College of Medicine Perak Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery (Recognized on 10 June 2012) AIMST University Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery (Recognized on 17 August 2007) Universiti Teknologi MARA Bachelor of Medicine and Surgery (recognized on 10 April 2008) Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery (recognized on 25 February 2013) Universiti Malaysia Sabah Doctor of Medicine (recognized on 26 May 2008) UCSI University Doctor of Medicine (Recognized on 26 March 2010) University of Cyberjaya (formerly known as Cyberjaya University College of Medical Sciences) Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery (Recognized on 29 July 2010) Universiti Sains Islam Malaysia Bachelor of Medicine and Surgery (recognized on 11 January 2011) 

66 Laws of Malaysia ACT 50 Country in which qualification is granted Name of Institution granting qualification Description of qualification Management and Science University Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery (Recognized on 23 April 2011) Universiti Tunku Abdul Rahman Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery (Recognized on 29 January 2015) Taylor’s University Bachelor of Medicine, Bachelor of Surgery – MBBS (recognized on 28 May 2015) SEGi University Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery (Recognized on 30 July 2015) Universiti Pertahanan Nasional Malaysia Doctor of Medicine (Recognized on 2 June 2016) Lincoln University College Doctor of Medicine (Recognized on 6 October 2016) Asia Metropolitan University (AMU) Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery (Recognized on 30 April 2017) Quest International University (QIU) (formerly known as QUEST International University Perak (QUIP)) Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery (Recognized on 25 May 2017) WIDAD University College Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery (Recognized on 10 August 2017) Universiti Islam Antarabangsa Sultan Abdul Halim Mu’adzam Shah (UniSHAMS) which was formerly known as Kolej Universiti Islam INSANIAH (KUIN) Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery 

Medical 67 Country in which qualification is granted Name of Institution granting qualification Description of qualification Perdana University Doctor of Medicine University of Malaya Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery or Sarjana Muda Perubatan dan Sarjana Muda Pembedahan Universiti Kebangsaan Malaysia Doktor Perubatan Universiti Sains Malaysia Doctor of Medicine Universiti Malaysia Sarawak (UNIMAS) Doctor of Medicine (M.D.) (Recognized on 15 May 2000) University Putra Malaysia (UPM) Doctor of Medicine (M.D) (Recognized on 5 June 2001) International Medical University (IMU) Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery (M.B.B.S) (Recognized on 19 February 2002) International Islamic University Malaysia (IIUM) Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery (M.B.B.S) (Recognized on 14 May 2002) Universiti Sultan Zainal Abidin Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery (Recognized on 7 August 2014) Manipal University College Malaysia (formerly known as Manipal Academy of Higher Education (MAHE): Melaka - Manipal Medical College) Bachelor of Medicine & Bachelor of Surgery (Recognized on 9 July 2013) Australia … University of New South Wales Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery University of Sydney Bachelor of Medicine; Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery 

68 Laws of Malaysia ACT 50 Country in which qualification is granted Name of Institution granting qualification Description of qualification University of Queensland Doctor of Medicine The University of Adelaide Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery (recognized on 15 January 1971) Bachelor of Medical Studies and Doctor of Medicine (recognized on 19 November 2020) University of Melbourne Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery (Recognized on 15 January 1971) Doctor of Medicine (Recognized on 21 June 2011) Monash University, Victoria Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery (Honours) (recognized on 1 July 2010) Bachelor of Medical Science and Doctor of Medicine (recognized on 19 December 2017) University of Western Australia Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery (Recognized on 15 January 1971) Doctor of Medicine (Recognized on 26 November 2013) University of Tasmania Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery Flinders University of South Australia Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery (Recognized on 11 July 1986) 

Medical 69 Country in which qualification is granted Name of Institution granting qualification Description of qualification Doctor of Medicine (Recognized on 25 June 2013) University of Western Sydney Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery (Recognized on 2 June 2008 until 7 July 2016) Western Sydney University Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery (recognized on 8 July 2016) Doctor of Medicine (recognized on 24 November 2017) The University of Newcastle Bachelor of Medicine (recognized on 27 July 1996) Bachelor of Medical Science and Doctor of Medicine (recognized on 20 October 2016) Austria … Medical University of Vienna Doctor of Medicine (Recognized on 23 August 2005) Bangladesh … University of Dhaka: Dhaka Medical College Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery (recognized on 8 February 1958) Bachelor of Medicine and Surgery (recognized on 8 February 1958) University of Chittagong: Chittagong Medical College Sylhet M.A.G. Osmani Medical College Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery 

70 Laws of Malaysia ACT 50 Country in which qualification is granted Name of Institution granting qualification Description of qualification University of Dhaka: Mymensigh Medical College Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery (recognized on 26 July 1996) Bachelor of Medicine and Surgery (recognized on 26 July 1996) Shahjalal University of Science and Technology: Sylhet M.A.G Osmani Medical College Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery Belgium … Catholic University Leuven (Katholieke Universiteit Leuven) Doctor of Medicine Antwerp University (Universiteit Antwerpen) Doctor of Medicine State University of Ghent (Rijksuniversitiet te gent) Doctor of Medicine Free University of Brussels (Vrije Universiteit Brussel) Doctor of Medicine Canada … University of Alberta Faculty of Medicine, Doctor of Medicine Edmonton University of British Columbia School of Medicine Vancouver Doctor of Medicine University of Calgary Doctor of Medicine University of Manitoba Faculty of Medicine, Winnipeg Doctor of Medicine Dalhousie University Faculty of Medicine, Halifax Doctor of Medicine Memorial University of New Foundland Doctor of Medicine Queen’s University Faculty of Medicine Kingston (M.D., C.M.) 

Medical 71 Country in which qualification is granted Name of Institution granting qualification Description of qualification University of Western Ontario Faculty of Medicine Doctor of Medicine University of Ottawa Faculty of Medicine, Ottawa Doctor of Medicine University of Toronto Faculty of Medicine, Toronto Doctor of Medicine McGill University Faculty of Medicine, Montreal (M.D., C.M.) University Montreal Faculty of Medicine, Montreal Doctor of Medicine Laval University Faculty of Medicine, Quebec Doctor of Medicine University of Saskatchewan College of Medicine, Saskatoon Doctor of Medicine College of Physicians and Surgeons, Alberta *Member College of Physicians and Surgeons, Manitoba *Member College of Physicians and Surgeons, Saskatchewan *Member Medical Board, Newfoundland *Licence Medical Board, Nova Scotia *Licence Medical Council, Prince Edward Island *Licence China Shanghai Jiao Tong University School of Medicine Bachelor of Medicine and Bahelor of Surgery (Recognized on 19 March 2013) *These qualifications are recognised only when held by a person who has passed the examinations for the Licence of the Medical Council of Canada or corresponding examinations held by the Provincial College, Medical Board or Council, or a University in the same Province. 

72 Laws of Malaysia ACT 50 Country in which qualification is granted Name of Institution granting qualification Description of qualification Shanghai Medical College of Fudan University Bachelor of Medicine (Recognized on 19 March 2013) Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery (Recognized on 19 March 2013) Doctor of Medicine (Recognized on 19 March 2013) Arab Republic of Egypt … University of Alexandria Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery University of Ain Shams Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery University of Cairo Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery University of Tanta Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery Mansoura University Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery (recognized on 29 December 1978) Bachelor of Medicine and Surgery (recognized on 29 December 1978) University of Zagazig Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery (recognized on 29 December 1978) Bachelor of Medicine and Surgery (recognized on 29 December 1978) 

Medical 73 Country in which qualification is granted Name of Institution granting qualification Description of qualification Al-Azhar University Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery Hong Kong … University of Hong Kong Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery India … University of Agra: Sarojini Naidu Medical College, Agra Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery (before 1 April 1994, excluded from recognition) University of Andhra: Andhra Medical College, Visakhapatnam Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery (before 11 January 1944, excluded from recognition) Andhra Pradesh University of Health Sciences, Vijayawada: Kurnool Medical College, Kurnool Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery Andhra Pradesh University of Health Sciences, Vijayawada: Guntur Medical College, Guntur Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery (Recognized on 1 October 1961 to 1 February 1998) Banaras Hindu University: Institute of Medical Sciences (formerly College of Medical Sciences) Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery M.S. University of Baroda: Medical College, Baroda Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor ofSurgery (before 1 April 1954, excluded from recognition) Bharathidasan University, Tiruchirapalli: Thanjavur Medical College, Thanjavur Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery (before 7 January 1982, excluded from recognition) University of Calcutta: Medical College, Calcutta R. G. Kar (formerly Carmichael) Medical College, Calcutta Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery (between 30 November 1924 and 13 May 1928 and 

74 Laws of Malaysia ACT 50 Country in which qualification is granted Name of Institution granting qualification Description of qualification between 24 February 1930 and 15 October 1936, excluded from recognition) *Nil Ratan Sarkar (form erly Campbell) Medical College, Calcutta Calcutta National Institute (formerly National Medical Institute), Calcutta Lake Medical College, Calcutta University of Dibrugarh: Assam Medical College, Dibrugarh Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery (before 21 May 1952, excluded from recognition) Devi Ahilya Vishwavidyalaya: Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Medical College, Indore (formerly University of Indore) Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery (before 26 January 1983, excluded from recognition) University of Madras: Jawaharlal Institute of Postgraduate Medical Education and Research (formerly known as Medical College (Jawaharlal Institute) Pondicherry) Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery Maharshi Dayanand University, Rohtak: Medical College, Rohtak Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery Mangalore University: Manipal Academy of Higher Education (MAHE), Kasturba Medical College, Mangalore, Kasturba Medical College, Manipal Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery (before July 1981, excluded from recognition) *NOTE—Not affiliated to Calcutta University now. 

Medical 75 Country in which qualification is granted Name of Institution granting qualification Description of qualification University of Mysore: Kasturba Medical College Mysore Medical College Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery (before 1 January 1949, excluded from recognition) University of Nagpur: Medical College, Nagpur Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery (before 1 September 1953, excluded from recognition) Osmania University: Gandhi Medical College, Hyderabad Osmania Medical College, Hyderabad Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery (before 16 August 1951, excluded from recognition) Panjab University: Amristar Medical College Christian Medical College, Ludhiana Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery (before 1 January 1948, excluded from recognition) University of Poona: B.J.Medical College, Poona Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery (Recognized on 15 January 1971 to 9 June 1998) University of Rajasthan: Sardar Patel Medical College, Bikaner Sawai Man Singh Medical College, Jaipur Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery (before 1 September 1953, excluded from recognition) Ravindranath Tagore Medical College, Udaipur University of Utkal: S.C.B. Medical College, Cuttack Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery (before 15 November 1951, excluded from recognition) College of Physicians and Surgeons, Bombay: Medical Colleges shown under the University of Bombay Member (before 1 May 1944, excluded from recognition) State Medical Faculty of West Bengal: Member 

76 Laws of Malaysia ACT 50 Country in which qualification is granted Name of Institution granting qualification Description of qualification Medical Colleges shown under the University of Calcutta (before 1 September 1953, excluded from recognition) S.S. Institute of Medical Sciences & Research Centre (SSIMSRC) Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery (Recognized on 12 July 2012) N.T.R. University of Health Sciences: Guntur Medical College, Guntur Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery (Recognized on 2 February 1998) Maharashtra University of Health Sciences, Nashik: B.J. Medical College, Poona Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery (Recognized on 10 June 1998) Karnataka University, Dharwad: Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College, Belgaum Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences, Bengaluru: Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College, Belgaum Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery KLE Academy of Higher Education and Research: Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College which was formerly known as KLE University, Belagavi: Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College, Belgaum Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences, Karnataka: Yenepoya Medical College, Mangalore Yenepoya (deemed to be University): Yenepoya Medical College, Mangalore (formerly known as Yenepoya University: Yenepoya Medical College, Mangalore) Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery 

Medical 77 Country in which qualification is granted Name of Institution granting qualification Description of qualification Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences, Karnataka: K. S. Hegde Medical Academy, Mangalore Nitte (deemed to be University): K. S. Hegde Medical Academy, Mangalore (formerly known as Nitte University: K. S. Hegde Medical Academy, Mangalore) Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences, Karnataka: JJM Medical College, Davangere Bachelor of Medicine & Bachelor of Surgery (recognized on 21 Ja nuary 2008) Krishna Institute of Medical Sciences (deemed to be University), Karad: Krishna Institute of Medical Sciences, Karad (formerly known as Krishna Institute of Med ical Sciences deemed to be University, Karad : Krishna Institute of Medical Sciences, Karad) Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery Sri Devaraj Urs Academy of Higher Education and Research: Sri Devaraj Urs Medical College, Kolar (formerly known as Sri Devaraj Urs University: Sri Devaraj Urs Medical College, Kolar) Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery Vinayaka Mission’s Research Foundation (deemed to be University), Salem (formerly known as Vinayaka Missions University, Salem): Vinayaka Missions Kirupananda Variyar Medical College, Salem Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery 

78 Laws of Malaysia ACT 50 Country in which qualification is granted Name of Institution granting qualification Description of qualification Vinayaka Mission’s Research Foundation (deemed to be University), Salem (formerly known as Vinayaka Missions University, Salem): Aarupadai Veedu Medical College, Pondicherry Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery Vinayaka Mission’s Research Foundation (deemed to be University), Salem (formerly known as Vinayaka Missions University, Salem): Vinayaka Missions Medical College, Pondicherry University of Kerala: Medical College, Calicut (formerly known as University of Kerala: Medical College, Calicut Trivandrum Medical College) Kerala University of Health Sciences: Government Medical College, Thiruvananthapuram (formerly known a s University of Kerala: Medical College, Calicut Trivandrum Medical College) Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery Indonesia … Fakulti Kedoktoran, Universiti Indonesia, Djakarta Ijazah Kedoktoran (M.D.) Fakulti Kedoktoran, Airlangga Universiti, Surabaya, Indonesia Ijazah Kedoktoran (M.D.) Universitas Diponegoro Semarang Doctor of Medicine Universitas Padjadjaran, Bandung Ijazah Kedoktoran (M.D.) Universitas Gadjah Mada, Jogjakarta Ijazah Kedoktoran (M.D.) 

Medical 79 Country in which qualification is granted Name of Institution granting qualification Description of qualification Universitas Andalas, Padang Ijazah Kedoktoran (M.D.) Universitas Sumatra Utara, Medan Ijazah Kedoktoran (M.D.) Universitas Sriwaja Palembang, Sumatera Ijazah Kedoktoran (M.D.) Universitas Brawijaya, Malang, Jawa Ijazah Kedoktoran (M.D.) Universitas Hasanuddin, Sulawesi Selatan Ijazah Kedoktoran (M.D.) Udayana University Ijazah Kedoktoran (M.D.) (recognized on 3 February 1995) Dokter (recognized on 3 February 1995) Universitas Trisakti Bachelor of Medicine (Recognized on 15 October 2001) Universitas Kristen Krida Wacana (UKRIDA) Bachelor of Medicine (recognized on 15 October 2001) Dokter (Medical Doctor) (recognized on 15 October 2001) Iran … University of Tehran registered as Tehran University of Medical Sciences (TUMS) on 16 October 1985 Doctor of Medicine MD Iraq … Baghdad University Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery University of Basrah Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery 

80 Laws of Malaysia ACT 50 Country in which qualification is granted Name of Institution granting qualification Description of qualification University of Al-Mustansyiriah: College of Medicine, Baghdad Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery University of Mosul Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery Republic of Ireland … The University of Dublin Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery (recognized on 15 January 1971) Licentiate in Medicine and Bachelor in Surgery (recognized on 15 January 1971) Bachelor of Medicine, Bachelor of Surgery and Bachelor in Obstetrics (recognized on 15 January 1971) National University of Ireland Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery Royal College of Physicians of Ireland Licentiate and Licentiate in Midwifery Royal College of Surgeons of Ireland Licentiate and Licentiate in Midwifery Apothecaries’ Hall of Dublin Licentiate Japan … Hiroshima University Doctor of Medicine Hokkaido University Doctor of Medicine Kyushu University Doctor of Medicine Nagasaki University Doctor of Medicine Tohoku University Doctor of Medicine 

Medical 81 Country in which qualification is granted Name of Institution granting qualification Description of qualification Tokyo Medical & Dental University Doctor of Medicine University of Tokushima Doctor of Medicine Osaka University Doctor of Medicine Ryukyus University Doctor of Medicine (M.D) (Recognized on 20 August 1996) Asahikawa Medical College Doctor of Medicine (M.D) (Recognized on 20 August 1996) Jordan … University of Jordan, Amman Medical Bachelor and Bachelor of Surgery Jordan University of Science and Technology (JUST), Irbid Bachelor Degree in Medicine and Surgery (recognized on 26 July 1996) Bachelor Degree in Doctor of Medicine (recognized on 5 March 2020) Malta … Royal University of Malta Doctor of Medicine Myanmar … Medical Institute (III), Mandalay (after November 1970 known as Institute of Medicine, Mandalay) Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery New Zealand … University of Otago Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery University of Auckland Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery Pakistan … University of Karachi: Dow Medical College, Karachi Bachelor of Medicine & Bachelor of Surgery (Recognized on 15 January 1971 to 1 May 2005) 

82 Laws of Malaysia ACT 50 Country in which qualification is granted Name of Institution granting qualification Description of qualification Dow University of Health Sciences: Dow Medical College, Karachi Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery (Recognized on 2 May 2005) University of the Punjab: King Edward Medical College, Lahore Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery (before 5 November 1957, excluded from recognition) Fatimah J innah Medical College for Women, Lahore Liaquat University of Medical & Health Sciences (formerly known as the University of Sind: Liaquat Medical College, Hyderabad) Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery (before 14 April 1960, excluded from recognition) Poland … The Medical University of Warsaw Doctor of Medicine (Recognized on 2 July 2007) Medical University of Lodz Doctor of Medicine (Recognized on 2 July 2007) Lekarz (recognized on 27 September 2018) Faculty of Medicine, Jagiellonian University In Krakow Doctor of Medicine (Recognized on 2 July 2007) Russia … I.M. Sechenov Moscow Medical Academy or Moscow Medical Academy (MMA) (official name is State Educational Establishment of Higher Vocational Training I.M. Sechenov Moscow Medical Academy─ (a) registered as the State Educational Institution of Highest Vocational Education Moscow Medical Academy named (a) Doctor of Medicine in General Medicine (before 3 May 2001, excluded from recognition) (b) Doctor of Medicine in General Medicine MD 

Medical 83 Country in which qualification is granted Name of Institution granting qualification Description of qualification after I.M. Sechenov of Federal Agency of Health and Social Development on 10 March 2005; (b) registered as the State Educational Institution of Highest Vocational Education First Moscow State Medical University named after I.M. Sechenov of Ministry of Health and S ocial Development of Russian Federation on 19 July 2010; (c) registered as the State Budget Educational Institution of Highest Vocational Education First Moscow State Medical University named after I.M. Sechenov of Ministry of Health and Social Development o f Russian Federation on 19 July 2011; and (d) registered as the Federal State Autonomous Educational Institution of Higher Education I.M. Sechenov First Moscow State Medical University of the Ministry of Health of the Russian Federation or Sechenov University on 11 May 2017. Russian National Research Medical University (formerly known as Russian State Medical University) Doctor of Medicine in General Medicine (recognized on 3 May 2001) 

84 Laws of Malaysia ACT 50 Country in which qualification is granted Name of Institution granting qualification Description of qualification Medical Doctor (M.D.) in General Medicine (recognized on 1 January 2017) N.I. Pirogov Russian National Research Medical University (formerly known as Russian National Research Medical University) Doctor of Medicine in General Medicine (recognized on 3 May 2001) Medical Doctor (M.D.) in General Medicine (recognized on 1 January 2017) Privolzhskiy Research Medical University which was formerly known as Nizhny Novgorod State Medical Academy Doctor of Medicine in General Medicine (before 3 May 2001, excluded from recognition) Kursk State Medical University Doctor of Medicine in General Medicine (recognized on 8 July 1999) Physician in General Medicine (recognized on 1 January 2010) Volgograd State Medical University (VolSMU) (before 8 January 2003 known as Volgograd State Medic al Academy or Volgograd Medical Academy) Doctor of Medicine in General Medicine (before 3 May 2001, excluded from recognition) Saudi Arabia … University of King Abdul Aziz, Jeddah Doctor of Medicine King Faisal University Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery King Edward VII College of Medicine Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery 

Medical 85 Country in which qualification is granted Name of Institution granting qualification Description of qualification Singapore … National University of Singapore (formerly known as University of Singapore) Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery South Africa … University of Pretoria, Pretoria Baccalaureus in Medicine Science and Surgery University of Witwatersrand, Johannesburg Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery (MBChB) Medical University of Southern Africa (MEDUNSA), Medunsa Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery (MBChB) University of Orange Free State, Bloemfontein Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery (MBChB) University of Cape Town, Cape Town Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery (MBChB) University of Stellenbosch, Stellenbosch Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery (MBChB) Sri Lanka (Ceylon) Faculty of Medicine, University of Colombo, Sri Lanka, (from 1 July 1942 till 30 September 1967 known as Faculty of Medicine, University of Ceylon; from 1 October 1967 till 30 September 1968 known as Faculty of Medicine, University of Colombo; from 1 October 1968 till 14 February 1972 known as Faculty of Medicine, University of Ceylon, Colombo; and from 15 February 1972 till 31 December 1978 known as Faculty of Medicine, Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery (Recognized on 15 January 1971) 

86 Laws of Malaysia ACT 50 Country in which qualification is granted Name of Institution granting qualification Description of qualification University of Sri Lanka, Colombo Campus) Faculty of Medicine, University of Peradeniya, Sri Lanka, (from 1 July 1942 till 30 September 1967, known as Faculty of Medicine, University of Ceylon; From 1 October 1967 till 30 September 1968 known as Faculty of Medicine, University of Colombo; From 1 October 1968 till 14 February 1972 known as Faculty of Medicine, University of Ceylon, Colombo; and from 15 February 1972 till 31 December 1978 known as Faculty of Medicine, University of Sri Lanka, Colombo Campus) Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery (Recognized on 15 January 1971) Czech Republic … Charles University in Praque- First Faculty of Medicine Doctor of Medicine (Recognized on 25 October 2004 until 31 December 2020) Charles University in Praque- Faculty of Medicine in Hradec Kralove Doctor of Medicine (Recognized on 25 October 2004 until 31 December 2020) Palacky University Doctor of Medicine (Recognized on 25 October 2004 until 31 December 2020) Sudan … University of Khartoum Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery (MBBS) University of Gezira Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery (MBBS) 

Medical 87 Country in which qualification is granted Name of Institution granting qualification Description of qualification Taiwan … National Taiwan University College of Medicine Doctor of Medicine National Defence Medical College Doctor of Medicine National Yang Ming University Medical College Doctor of Medicine National Cheng Kung University Medical College Doctor of Medicine Taipei Medical University which was formerly known as Taipei Medical College Doctor of Medicine China Medical College Doctor of Medicine Chung Shan Medical University (formerly known as Chung Shan Medical & Dental College) Doctor of Medicine Kaohsiung Medical College Doctor of Medicine Turkey … University of Ankara Doctor of Medicine University of Hacetteppe Doctor of Medicine University of Istanbul Doctor of Medicine University of Ege, Izmir Doctor of Medicine Gulhane Military Medical Academy, Ankara Doctor of Medicine Uganda … University of East Africa: Makerere University College Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery (before December 1953, excluded from recognition) 

88 Laws of Malaysia ACT 50 Country in which qualification is granted Name of Institution granting qualification Description of qualification Ukraine … Crimea State Medical University Doctor of Medicine in General Medicine (Recognized on 7 August 2001 and no longer recognized from 29 March 2013) United Arab Emirates … Gulf Medical University Bachelor of Medicine & Bachelor of Surgery (Recognized on 31 January 2011) United Kingdom … Imperial College London Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery (Recognized on 11 June 2008) University of Birmingham Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery University of Bristol Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery University of Cambridge Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery University of Durham Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery University of Leeds Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery University of Leicester: School of Medicine Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery University of Liverpool Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery University of London Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery The University of Manchester Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery 

Medical 89 Country in which qualification is granted Name of Institution granting qualification Description of qualification (recognized on 15 January 1971) Bachelor of Medicine, Bachelor of Surgery (recognized on 15 January 1971) University of Newcastle- upon-Tyne Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery University of Oxford Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery University of Sheffield Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery University of Wales Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery University of Aberdeen Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery University of Dundee Bachelor of Medi cine and Bachelor of Surgery University of Edinburgh Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery University of Glasgow Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery University of St. Andrews Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery Queen Mary Unversity of London Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery (Recognized on 10 December 2013) Warwick Medical School, The University of Warwick Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery (Recognized on 22 May 2009) 

90 Laws of Malaysia ACT 50 Country in which qualification is granted Name of Institution granting qualification Description of qualification University of Keele Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery (Recognized on 22 May 2009) Brighton and Sussex Medical School, University of Brighton and the University of Sussex Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery (Recognized on 20 August 2009) Cardiff University Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery (Recognized on 6 June 2007) King’s College London Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery (Recognized on 3 November 2008) University College London Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery (Recognized on 3 November 2008) St. George’s Hospital Medical School Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery (Recognized on 8 December 2008) Queen’s University of Belfast Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery Royal College of Physicians of London Licentiate Royal College of Surgeons of England Member Society of Apothecaries of London Licentiate in Medicine and Surgery Royal College of Physicians of Edinburgh Licentiate Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Glasgow Licentiate 

Medical 91 Country in which qualification is granted Name of Institution granting qualification Description of qualification University of Southampton Bachelor of Medicine Nottingham University Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery University of Exeter Medical School Bachelor of Medicine, Bachelor of Surgery (Recognized on 1 January 2013) United States of America… Medical College of Alabama, Birmingham Doctor of Medicine University of Arkansas School of Medicine, Little Rock Doctor of Medicine Loma Linda University School of Medicine Doctor of Medicine University of California School of Medicine, Los Angeles Doctor of Medicine University of California, Irvine California College of Medicine Doctor of Medicine University of Southern California School of Medicine, Los Angeles Doctor of Medicine Stanford University School of Medicine, Palo Alto Doctor of Medicine University of California School of Medicine, San Francisco Doctor of Medicine University of Colorado School of Medicine, Denver Doctor of Medicine Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven Doctor of Medicine 

92 Laws of Malaysia ACT 50 Country in which qualification is granted Name of Institution granting qualification Description of qualification Georgetown University School of Medicine, Washington Doctor of Medicine George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington Doctor of Medicine Howard University College of Medicine, Washington Doctor of Medicine University of Miami School of Medicine, Coral Gables Doctor of Medicine University of Florida College of Medicine Gainesville Doctor of Medicine Emory University School of Medicine, Atlanta Doctor of Medicine Medical College of Georgia, Augusta Doctor of Medicine Chicago Medical Col lege, Chicago Doctor of Medicine Northwestern University Medical School, Chicago Doctor of Medicine Loyola University, Stritch School of Medicine, Chicago Doctor of Medicine University of Chicago School of Medicine, Chicago Doctor of Medicine University of Illinois College of Medicine Doctor of Medicine Indiana University School of Medicine, Indianapolis Doctor of Medicine University of Iowa College of Medicine, Iowa City Doctor of Medicine University of Kansas School of Medicine, Kansas City Doctor of Medicine 

Medical 93 Country in which qualification is granted Name of Institution granting qualification Description of qualification University of Kentucky College of Medicine, Lexington Doctor of Medicine University of Louisville School of Medicine, Louisville Doctor of Medicine Louisiana University School of Medicine, New Orleans Doctor of Medicine Tulane University School of Medicine, New Orleans Doctor of Medicine Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore Doctor of Medicine University of Maryland School of Medicine, Baltimore Doctor of Medicine Boston University School of Medicine, Boston Doctor of Medicine Harvard Medical School, Boston Doctor of Medicine Tufts University School of Medicine, Boston Doctor of Medicine Wayne State Univers ity School of Medicine, Detroit Doctor of Medicine University of Minnesota Medical School, Minneapolis Doctor of Medicine University of Mississippi School of Medicine, Jackson Doctor of Medicine University of Missouri School of Medicine, Columbia Doctor of Medicine Saint Louis University School of Medicine, St. Louis Doctor of Medicine Washington University School of Medicine, St. Louis Doctor of Medicine 

94 Laws of Malaysia ACT 50 Country in which qualification is granted Name of Institution granting qualification Description of qualification Creighton University School of Medicine, Omaha Doctor of Medicine University of Nebraska College of Medicine, Omaha Doctor of Medicine New Jersey College o f Medicine and Dentistry, Jersey City Doctor of Medicine Albany Medical College of Union University, Albany Doctor of Medicine State University of New York at Buffalo School of Medicine Doctor of Medicine Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons, New York Doctor of Medicine Cornell University Medical College, New York Doctor of Medicine Albert Einstein College of Medicine, Yeshire University New York Doctor of Medicine New York Medical College, New York Doctor of Medicine New York University School of Medicine, New York Doctor of Medicine State University of New York College of Medicine, Downstate Medical Center, Brooklyn Doctor of Medicine University of Rochester School of Medicine and Dentistry, Rochester Doctor of Medicine 

Medical 95 Country in which qualification is granted Name of Institution granting qualification Description of qualification State University of New York College of Medicine, Upstate Medical Center, Syracuse Doctor of Medicine University of North Carolina School of Medicine, Chapel Hill Doctor of Medicine Duke University School of Medicine, Durham Doctor of Medicine Bowman Gray School of Medicine of Wake Forest College, Winston-Salem Doctor of Medicine University of Cincinnati College of Medicine, Cincinnati Doctor of Medicine Case Western Reserve University School of Medicine, Cleveland Doctor of Medicine Ohio State University College of Medicine, Columbus Doctor of Medicine University of Oklahoma School of Medicine, Oklahoma City Doctor of Medicine University of Oregon Medical School, Portland Doctor of Medicine Mahnemann Medical College of Philadelphia Doctor of Medicine Sidney Kimmel Medical College, Thomas Jefferson University (formerly known as Jefferson Medical College of Philadelphia) Doctor of Medicine Temple University School of Medicine, Philadelphia Doctor of Medicine 

96 Laws of Malaysia ACT 50 Country in which qualification is granted Name of Institution granting qualification Description of qualification University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine, Philadelphia Doctor of Medicine Woman’s Medical College of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia Doctor of Medicine University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine Doctor of Medicine University of Puerto Rico School of Medicine, San Juan Doctor of Medicine Medical College of South Carolina, Charleston Doctor of Medicine University of Tennessee College of Medicine, Memphis Doctor of Medicine Meharry Medical College School of Medicine, Nashville Doctor of Medicine Vanderbilt University School of Medicine, Nashville Doctor of Medicine University of Texas Southwestern Medical School, Dallas Doctor of Medicine University of Texas Medical Branch, Galveston Doctor of Medicine Baylor University College of Medicine, Houston Doctor of Medicine University of Utah College of Medicine, Salt Lake City Doctor of Medicine University of Vermont College of Medicine, Burlington Doctor of Medicine University of Virginia School of Medicine, Charlottesville Doctor of Medicine 

Medical 97 Country in which qualification is granted Name of Institution granting qualification Description of qualification Medical College of Virginia, Richmond Doctor of Medicine University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle Doctor of Medicine West Virginia University School of Medicine, Morgantown Doctor of Medicine University of Wisconsin Medical School, Madison Doctor of Medicine Marquette University School of Medicine, Milwaukee Doctor of Medicine Dartmouth Medical School, Hanover Doctor of Medicine University of North Dakota School of Medicine, Grand Forks Doctor of Medicine University of South Dakota School of Medicine, Vermillion Doctor of Medicine University of New Mexico School of Medicine, Albuquerque Doctor of Medicine Rutgers State University Doctor of Medicine Brown University, Providence Rhode Island Doctor of Medicine West Indies … University of West Indies Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery 

98 Laws of Malaysia ACT 50 THIRD SCHEDULE [Subsection 34A(1)] LIST OF EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION International Medical University Melaka-Manipal Medical College Penang Medical College Perak College of Medicine Asian Institute of Medicine, Science and Technology Monash University, Sunway Campus Malaysia 

99 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 50 MEDICAL ACT 1971 LIST OF AMENDMENTS Amending law Short title In force from P.U. (A) 41/1975 Medical (Amendment of Second Schedule) Order 1975 211975 Act A300 Medical (Amendment) Act 1975 301975 P.U. (A) 311/1975 Medical (Amendment of Second Schedule) (No. 2) Order 1975 031975 P.U. (A) 27/1976 Medical Act (Amendment of Second Schedule) Order 1976 061976 P.U. (A) 101/1976 Medical Act (Amendment of Second Schedule) (No. 2) Order 1976 091976 Act A362 Medical (Amendment) Act 1976 291976 P.U. (A) 258/1977 Medical Act (Amendment of Second Schedule) Order 1977 021977 P.U. (A) 373/1978 Medical Act (Amendment of Second Schedule) Order 1978 291978 P.U. (A) 127/1979 Medical Act (Amendment of Second Schedule) Order 1979 221979 

100 Laws of Malaysia ACT 50 Amending law Short title In force from P.U. (A) 165/1979 Medical Act (Amendment of Second Schedule) (No.2) Order 1979 031979 Act A492 Medical (Amendment) Act 1980 301980 except s. 34B: 011973 P.U. (A) 180/1981 Medical (Amendment of Second Schedule) Order 1981 261981 P.U. (A) 460/1983 Medical Act (Amendment of Second Schedule) Order 1983 111983 P.U. (A) 73/1986 Medical (Amendment of Second Schedule) Order 1986 211986 P.U. (A) 123/1986 Medical (Amendment of Second Schedule) (No. 2) Order 1986 181986 P.U. (A) 229/1986 Medical (Amendment of Second Schedule) (No. 3) Order 1986 111986 P.U. (A) 230/1986 Medical (Amendment of Second Schedule) Order 1986 –Corrigendum 111986 P.U. (A) 392/1986 Medical (Amendment of Second Schedule) Order 1986 141986 P.U. (A) 251/1987 Medical (Amendment of Second Schedule) Order 1987 311987 P.U. (A) 285/1987 Medical (Amendment of Second Schedule) (No. 2) Order 1987 041987 P.U. (A) 375/1987 Medical (Amendment of Second Schedule) (No. 3) Order 1987 131987 

Medical 101 Amending law Short title In force from P.U. (A) 388/1987 Medical (Amendment of Second Schedule) Order 1987 – Corrigendum 201987 P.U. (A) 391/1987 Medical (Amendment of Second Schedule) (No. 4) Order 1987 271987 P.U. (A) 172/1988 Medical (Amendment of Second Schedule) Order 1988 031988 P.U. (A) 82/1989 Medical (Amendment of Second Schedule) Order 1989 171989 P.U. (A) 372/1989 Medical (Amendment of Second Schedule) (No. 2) Order 1989 171989 P.U. (A) 351/1990 Medical (Amendment of Second Schedule) Order 1990 261990 P.U. (A) 45/1992 Medical (Amendment of Second Schedule) Order 1992 211992 P.U. (A) 377/1992 Medical (Amendment of Second Schedule) (No. 2) Order 1992 161992 Act A840 Medical (Amendment) Act 1993 051993; except s.39, 40, 41, 42, 43 and 44 – 011986 P.U. (A) 83/1993 Medical (Amendment of Second Schedule) Order 1993 021993 P.U. (A) 51/1994 Medical (Amendment of Second Schedule) Order 1994 111994 

102 Laws of Malaysia ACT 50 Amending law Short title In force from P.U. (A) 307/1994 Medical (Amendment of Second Schedule) (No.2) Order 1994 121994 P.U. (A) 46/1995 Medical (Amendment of Second Schedule) Order 1995 031995 P.U. (A) 135/1995 Medical (Amendment of Second Schedule) (No.2) Order 1995 051995 P.U. (A) 391/1995 Medical (Amendment of Second Schedule) (No.3) Order 1995 031995 P.U. (A) 404/1995 Medical (Amendment of Second Schedule) (No.4) Order 1995 171995 Act A932 Medical (Amendment) Act 1995 101995 P.U. (A) 200/1996 Medical (Amendment of Second Schedule) Order 1996 031996 P.U. (A) 353/1996 Medical (Amendment of Second Schedule) Order 1996 261996 P.U. (A) 354/1996 Medical (Amendment of Second Schedule) (No.2) Order 1996 261996 P.U. (A) 144/1997 Medical (Amendment of Second Schedule) Order 1997 011997 P.U. (A) 324/1999 Medical (Amendment of Second Schedule) Order 1999 131999 P.U. (A) 143/2000 Medical (Amendment of Second Schedule) Order 2000 212000 

Medical 103 Amending law Short title In force from P.U. (A) 371/2000 Medical (Amendment of Second Schedule) (No.2) Order 2000 132000 P.U. (A) 77/2002 Medical (Amendment of Second Schedule) Order 2002 012002 P.U. (A) 132/2002 Medical (Amendment of Second Schedule) (No. 2) Order 2002 122002 P.U. (A) 93/2003 Medical (Amendment of Third Schedule) Order 2003 042003 P.U. (A) 177/2003 Medical (Amendment of Second Schedule) Order 2003 062003 P.U. (A) 391/2003 Medical (Amendment of Second Schedule) (No. 2) Order 2003 242003 P.U. (A) 116/2004 Medical (Amendment of Third Schedule) Order 2004 022004 P.U. (A) 189/2004 Medical (Amendment of First Schedule) Order 2004 112004 P.U. (A) 171/2005 Medical (Amendment of Second Schedule) Order 2005 222005 P.U. (A) 172/2005 Medical (Amendment of Third Schedule) Order 2005 222005 P.U. (A) 281/2012 Medical (Amendment of Second Schedule) Order 2012 062012 

104 Laws of Malaysia ACT 50 Amending law Short title In force from P.U. (A) 111/2013 Medical (Amendment of Second Schedule) Order 2013 292013 P.U. (A) 149/2013 Medical (Amendment of Second Schedule) (No.2) Order 2013 012013 P.U. (A) 311/2013 Medical (Amendment of Second Schedule) (No.3) Order 2013 122013 P.U. (A) 329/2013 Medical (Amendment of Second Schedule) (No.4) Order 2013 012013 P.U. (A) 5/2014 Medical (Amendment of Second Schedule) Order 2014 082014 P.U. (A) 293/2014 Medical (Amendment of Second Schedule) (No.2) Order 2014 082014 P.U. (A) 33/2015 Medical (Amendment of Second Schedule) Order 2015 172015 P.U. (A) 41/2015 Medical (Amendment of Second Schedule)(No. 2) Order 2015 062015 P.U. (A) 127/2016 Medical (Amendment of Second Schedule) Order 2016 182016 P.U. (A) 88/2017 Medical (Amendment of Second Schedule) Order 2017 292017 P.U. (A) 166/2017 Medical (Amendment of Second Schedule) (No.2) Order 2017 082017 

Medical 105 Amending law Short title In force from Act A1443 Medical (Amendment) Act 2012 012017 P.U. (A) 7/2018 Medical (Amendment of Second Schedule) Order 2018 192018 P.U. (A) 117/2018 Medical (Amendment of Second Schedule) (No.2) Order 2018 172018 P.U. (A) 197/2018 Medical (Amendment of Second Schedule) (No.3) Order 2018 212018 P.U. (A) 286/2018 Medical (Amendment of Second Schedule) (No.4) Order 2018 062018 P.U. (A) 287/2018 Medical (Amendment of Second Schedule) (No.5) Order 2018 082018 P.U. (A) 314/2018 Medical (Amendment of Second Schedule) (No.6) Order 2018 132018 P.U. (A) 6/2019 Medical (Amendment of Second Schedule) Order 2019 052019 P.U. (A) 64/2019 Medical (Amendment of Second Schedule) (No. 2) Order 2019 022019 P.U. (A) 236/2019 Medical (Amendment of Second Schedule) (No. 3) Order 2019 052019 P.U. (A) 258/2019 Medical (Amendment of Second Schedule) (No. 4) Order 2019 212019 P.U. (A) 329/2019 Medical (Amendment of Second Schedule) (No. 2) Order 2019-Corrigendum 022019 

106 Laws of Malaysia ACT 50 Amending law Short title In force from P.U. (A) 330/2019 Medical (Amendment of Second Schedule) (No. 3) Order 2019 – Corrigendum 052019 P.U. (A) 86/2020 Medical (Amendment of Second Schedule) Order 1987 – Corrigendum 311987 P.U. (A) 3/2021 Medical (Amendment of Second Schedule) Order 2021 122021 P.U. (A) 108/2021 Medical (Amendment of Second Schedule) (No.2) Order 2021 112021 P.U. (B) 594/2020 Medical Order 2020 – Corrigendum 012020 P.U. (A) 135/2021 Medical (Amendment of Second Schedule) (No.3) Order 2021 – Corrigendum 262021 P.U. (A) 167/2021 Medical (Amendmen t of Second Schedule) Order 1975 – Corrigendum 211975 P.U. (A) 271/2021 Medical (Amendment of Second Schedule) (No.4) Order 2021 182021 P.U. (A) 273/2021 Medical (Amendment of Second Schedule) (No.5) Order 2021 232021 P.U. (A) 317/2021 Medical (Amendment of Second Schedule) (No.6) Order 2021 272021 P.U. (A) 321/2021 Medical (Amendment of Second Schedule) (No.2) Order 2019 –Corrigendum 012019 P.U. (A) 342/2021 Medical (Amendment of Second Schedule) (No.7) Order 2021 202021 

Medical 107 Amending law Short title In force from P.U. (A) 374/2021 Medical (Amendment of Second Schedule) (No.8) Order 2021 242021 P.U. (B) 540/2021 Medical Act 1971 – Corrigendum 012020 P.U. (A) 28/2022 Medical ( Amendment of Second Schedule) Order 2022 042022 P.U. (A) 46/2022 Medical (Amendment of Second Schedule) (No.2) Order 1996 – Corrigendum 052022 P.U. (A) 47/2022 Medical (Amendment of Second Schedule) (No.2) Order 2022 052022 P.U. (A) 161/2022 Medical (Amendment of Second Schedule) (No.3) Order 2022 202022 P.U. (A) 266/2022 Medical (Amendment of Second Schedule) (No.4) Order 2022 232022 

108 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 50 MEDICAL ACT 1971 LIST OF SECTIONS AMENDED Section Amending authority In force from Long title Act A1443 012017 2 Act A1443 012017 3 Act A300 Act A492 Act A840 Act A1443 301975 301980 051993 012017 3A Act A1443 012017 3B Act A1443 012017 3C Act A1443 012017 3D Act A1443 012017 3E Act A1443 012017 3F Act A1443 012017 3G Act A1443 012017 4 Act A1443 012017 4A Act A1443 012017 4B Act A1443 012017 4C Act A1443 012017 4D Act A1443 012017 4E Act A1443 012017 4F Act A1443 012017 

Medical 109 Section Amending authority In force from 4G Act A1443 012017 4H Act A1443 012017 4I Act A1443 012017 4J Act A1443 012017 9 Act A1443 012017 12 Act A362 Act A840 Act A1443 291976 051993 012017 13 Act A362 Act A492 Act A840 Act A1443 291976 301980 051993 012017 14 Act A1443 012017 14A Act A1443 012017 14B Act A1443 012017 14C Act A1443 012017 16 Act A1443 012017 18 Act A1443 012017 19 Act A300 Act A840 Act A1443 301975 051993 012017 20 Act A300 Act A1443 P.U. (B) 594/2020 301975 012017 012020 21 Act A1443 012017 22 Act A1443 012017 23 Act A1443 012017 

110 Laws of Malaysia ACT 50 Section Amending authority In force from 24 Act A840 Act A1443 051993 012017 24A Act A1443 012017 26 Act A1443 012017 27 Act A1443 012017 29 Act A1443 012017 29A Act A1443 012017 30 Act A1443 012017 31 Act A1443 012017 31A Act A300 Act A1443 301975 012017 32 Act A1443 012017 33 Act A1443 012017 34 Act A1443 012017 34A Act A362 Act A932 Act A1443 291976 101995 012017 34B Act A492 Act A1443 011973 012017 34C Act A840 Act A1443 051993 012017 35 Act A840 Act A1443 051993 012017 35A Act A1443 012017 36 Act A1443 012017 37 Act A840 051993 

Medical 111 Section Amending authority In force from 39 Act A840 011986 40 Act A300 Act A362 Act A840 Act A1443 301975 291976 011986 012017 41 Act A300 Act A362 Act A840 Act A1443 301975 291976 011986 012017 42 Act A840 Act A1443 011986 012017 43 Act A840 011986 44 Act A840 011986 First Schedule P.U. (A) 189/2004 Act A1443 112004 012017 Second Schedule P.U. (A) 41/1975 P.U. (A) 311/1975 P.U. (A) 27/1976 P.U. (A) 101/1976 P.U. (A) 258/1977 P.U. (A) 273/1978 P.U. (A) 127/1979 P.U. (A) 165/1979 P.U. (A) 460/1983 P.U. (A) 73/1986 P.U. (A) 123/1986 P.U. (A) 229/1986 P.U. (A) 230/1986 P.U. (A) 392/1986 P.U. (A) 251/1987 P.U. (A) 285/1987 P.U. (A) 375/1987 P.U. (A) 388/1987 P.U. (A) 391/1987 P.U. (A) 172/1988 P.U. (A) 82/1989 P.U. (A) 372/1989 P.U. (A) 351/1990 211975 031975 061976 091976 021977 291978 221979 031979 111983 211986 181986 111986 111986 141986 311987 041987 131987 201987 271987 031988 171989 171989 261990 

112 Laws of Malaysia ACT 50 Section Amending authority In force from P.U. (A) 45/1992 P.U. (A) 377/1992 P.U. (A) 83/1993 P.U. (A) 51/1994 P.U. (A) 307/1994 P.U. (A) 46/1995 P.U. (A) 135/1995 P.U. (A) 391/1995 P.U. (A) 404/1995 P.U. (A) 200/1996 P.U. (A) 353/1996 P.U. (A) 354/1996 P.U. (A) 144/1997 P.U. (A) 324/1999 P.U. (A) 143/2000 P.U. (A) 371/2000 P.U. (A) 77/2002 P.U. (A) 132/2002 P.U. (A) 177/2003 P.U. (A) 391/2003 P.U. (A) 171/2005 P.U. (A) 281/2012 P.U. (A) 111/2013 P.U. (A) 149/2013 P.U. (A) 311/2013 P.U. (A) 329/2013 P.U. (A) 5/2014 P.U. (A) 293/2014 P.U. (A) 33/2015 P.U. (A) 41/2015 P.U. (A) 127/2016 P.U. (A) 88/2017 P.U. (A) 166/2017 P.U. (A) 7/2018 P.U. (A) 117/2018 P.U. (A) 197/2018 P.U. (A) 286/2018 P.U. (A) 287/2018 P.U. (A) 314/2018 P.U. (A) 6/2019 P.U. (A) 64/2019 P.U. (A) 3/2021 P.U. (A) 108/2021 P.U. (A) 135/2021 P.U. (A) 167/2021 P.U. (A) 271/2021 211992 161992 021993 111994 121994 031995 051995 031995 171995 031996 261996 261996 011997 131999 212000 132000 012002 122002 062003 242003 222005 062012 292013 012013 122013 012013 082014 082014 172015 062015 182016 292017 082017 192018 172018 212018 062018 082018 132018 052019 022019 122021 112021 262021 211975 182021 

Medical 113 Section Amending authority In force from P.U. (A) 273/2021 P.U. (A) 317/2021 P.U. (A) 321/2021 P.U. (A) 342/2021 P.U. (A) 374/2021 P.U. (B) 540/2021 P.U. (A) 28/2022 P.U. (A) 46/2022 P.U. (A) 47/2022 P.U. (A) 161/2022 P.U. (A) 266/2022 232021 262021 012019 202021 242021 012020 042022 052022 052022 202022 232022 Third Schedule Act A932 P.U. (A) 93/2003 P.U. (A) 116/2004 P.U. (A) 172/2005 101995 042003 022004 222005