Trademarks 1 LAWS OF MALAYSIA ONLINE VERSION OF UPDATED TEXT OF REPRINT Act 815 TRADEMARKS ACT 2019 As at 18 March 2022 This text is ONLY AN UPDATED TEXT of the Trademarks Act 2019 by the Attorney General’s Chambers. Unless and until reprinted p ursuant to the powers of the Commissioner of Law Revision under subsection 14(1) of the Revision of Laws Act 1968 [Act 1], this text is NOT AN AUTHENTIC TEXT. 

2 TRADEMARKS ACT 2019 Date of Royal Assent ... ... ... 22 November 2019 Date of public ation in the Gazette ... 9 December 2019 English text to be authoritative … … P.U. (B) 654 of 2019 Latest amendment made by P.U. (A) 66/2022 which came into operation on … … … 18 March 2022 

3 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 815 TRADEMARKS ACT 2019 ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS PART I PRELIMINARY Section 1. Short title and commencement 2. Interpretation 3. Definition of “trademark” 4. Definition of “well-known trademark” 5. Definition of “earlier trademark” 6. Definition of “infringing goods”, “infringing material ”, “infringing articles”, “counterfeit goods” and “counterfeit trademarks” 7. References to use of trademark 8. Use of trademark for export trade or where form of trade changes 9. Determination of likelihood of confusion PART II ADMINISTRATION 10. Registrar, Deputy Registrars and Assistant Registrars 11. Protection of Registrar, Deputy Registrars, Assistant Registrars and other officers 12. Trademarks Office and other branch offices 13. Preliminary advice and search by Registrar PART III THE REGISTER OF TRADEMARKS 14. Register of Trademarks 15. Inspection of Register 

4 Laws of Malaysia ACT 815 PART IV REGISTRATION OF TRADEMARKS Chapter 1 Introductory Section 16. Registered trademark Chapter 2 Application for registration of trademark 17. Application for registration of trademark 18. Application in multiple classes 19. Classification of goods or services 20. Colour of trademark 21. Series of trademarks 22. Date of filing Chapter 3 Grounds for refusal of registration 23. Absolute grounds for refusal of registration 24. Relative grounds for refusal of registration 25. Honest concurrent use, etc. Chapter 4 Priority 26. Claim to priority of Convention application 27. Claim to priority from other relevant overseas application 28. Claim to priority from temporary protection of trademark which is the subject matters of international exhibition given unde r Article 11 of Paris Convention 

Trademarks 5 Chapter 5 Examination Section 29. Examination of application 30. Voluntary disclaimer, condition or limitation 31. Publication of acceptance Chapter 6 Withdrawal, restriction or amendment of application for registration of trademark 32. Withdrawal or restriction of application for registration of trademark 33. Amendment of application for registration of trademark Chapter 7 Opposition 34. Grounds of opposition 35. Opposition proceedings Chapter 8 Registration 36. Registration PART V DIVISION AND MERGER 37. Application for division 38. Application for merger PART VI DURATION AND RENEWAL OF REGISTERED TRADEMARKS 39. Duration and renewal of registration 40. Status of unrenewed trademark 41. Cessation of registration 

6 Laws of Malaysia ACT 815 PART VII ALTERATION, CORRECTION, CANCELLATION, REVOCATION AND INVALIDITY Section 42. Alteration of registered trademark 43. Correction of Register 44. Voluntary cancellation of registered trademark 45. Revocation of registration by Registrar 46. Revocation of registration by Court as to non-use of trademark 47. Invalid ation of registration by Court PART VIII EFFECTS OF REGISTERED TRADEMARKS Chapter 1 Rights of registered proprietor of trademark 48. Rights conferred by registered trademark 49. Limitation on rights if similar trademarks, etc., registered by different persons 50. Trademark consisting of sign that becomes accepted as sign describing article, etc. 51. Trademark relating to article, etc., formerly manufactured under patent 52. Registration prima facie evidence 53. Registration conclusive Chapter 2 Infringement of trademarks 54. Acts amounting to infringement of registered trademark 55. Acts not amounting to infringement 56. Action for infringement 57. Circumstances in which action may not be instituted 58. Order for erasure, etc., of offending sign 59. Order for delivery up of infringing goods, material or articles 60. Order for disposal of infringing goods, material or articles 61. Remedy for groundless threats of infringement proceedings 

Trademarks 7 PART IX TRADEMARKS AS OBJECT OF PROPERTY Section 62. Nature of registered trademark as property 63. Co-proprietorship of registered trademark 64. Assignment, etc., of registered trademark 65. Registration of transaction affecting registered trademark 66. Trust and equities 67. Application for registration trademark as an object of property PART X LICENSING 68. Interpretation 69. Licensing of registered trademark 70. Rights of licensees in case of infringement 71. Exclusive licensee having rights and remedies of assignee PART XI COLLECTIVE MARKS AND CERTIFICATION MARKS 72. Collective marks 73. Certification marks PART XII INTERNATIONAL MATTERS Chapter 1 Madrid Protocol 74. Interpretation 75. Regulations relating to Madrid Protocol 

8 Laws of Malaysia ACT 815 Chapter 2 Conventions and international arrangements Section 76. Protection of well-known trademarks 77. Permitted use of well-known trademarks 78. National emblems, etc., of Convention count ries under Article 6ter of Paris Convention 79. Emblems, etc., of certain international intergovernmental organization under Article 6 ter of Paris Convention 80. Notification under Article 6ter of the Paris Convention PART XIII BORDER MEASURES 81. Interpretation 82. Restriction on importation of infringing goods 83. Security 84. Secure storage of seized goods 85. Notice 86. Inspection, release, etc., of seized goods 87. Forfeiture of seized goods by consent 88. Compulsory release of seized goods to importer 89. Compensation for failure to take action 90. Actions for infringement of registered trademark 91. Disposal of seized goods ordered to be forfeited 92. Insufficient security 93. Ex-officio action 94. De Minimis Imports PART XIV TRADEMARK AGENTS 95. Recognition of registered trademark agents and circumstances in which a registered trademark agent shall be required 96. Register of Trademark Agents 97. Registration of trademark agent 98. Privileged for communications with registered trademark agent 

Trademarks 9 PART XV OFFENCE Section 99. Counterfeiting a trademark 100. Falsely applying a registered trademark to goods or services 101. Making or possessing of article for committing offence 102. Importing or selling, etc., goods with falsely applied trademark 103. False entries to Trademarks Office or in Register 104. Falsely representing trademark as registered 105. Offence relating to disobedience to summons or refusal to give evidence 106. Falsely representing trademark as a protected international registration designating Malaysia 107. Misuse of title “Trademarks Office” 108. Unregistered persons practising, etc., as a registered trademark agent PART XVI INVESTIGATION AND ENFORCEMENT Chapter 1 Investigation and complaints 109. Interpretation 110. Power of Controller, Deputy Controllers or Assistant Controllers 111. Power of investigation 112. Complaints to the Assistant Controller Chapter 2 Information gathering powers 113. Power of the Assistant Controller to require provision of information 114. Assistant Controller may retain documents 115. Confidentiality 116. Privileged communication 117. Giving false or misleading information, evidence or document 118. Destruction, concealment, mutilation and alteration of records 

10 Laws of Malaysia ACT 815 Chapter 3 Powers of arrest, search, seizure etc. Section 119. Power of arrest 120. Power to enter premises, inspect and seize goods, etc. 121. Magistrate may issue search warrant 122. Search may be made without warrant 123. Access to recorded information or computerized data, etc. 124. Tipping -off 125. Warrant admissible notwithstanding defects 126. List of seized goods, etc. 127. Forfeiture of seized goods, etc. 128. Release of seized goods, etc. 129. Seizure of perishable goods 130. No cost or damages arising from seizure to be recoverable 131. Obstruction 132. Evidence of agent provocateur is admissible 133. Taking of samples 134. Jurisdiction to try offences 135. Institution of prosecution 136. Compounding of offences 137. Principal liable for acts of servant or agent 138. Offences committed by body corporate 139. Protection of Controller, Deputy Controllers, Assistant Controllers or other persons PART XVII LEGAL PROCEEDINGS IN COURT, COST AND EVIDENCE 140. Service of applications to Court on the Registrar 141. Registrar’s appearance in proceedings involving the Register 142. Costs of proceedings before Court 143. Certificate of validity 144. Evidentiary value of copies certified by the Registrar 

Trademarks 11 Section 145. Sealed copies of document to be evidence 146. Electronic information, etc., certified by the Registrar admissible in evidence 147. Minister may declare documents of foreign state pertaining to trademarks to be admissible as evidence PART XVIII MISCELLANEOUS AND GENERAL 148. Intellectual Property Official Journal 149. Electronic filing 150. Issuing document electronically 151. Address for service 152. Power of Registrar to allow amendments of documents 153. Power of Registrar to allow extension of time 154. Mode of giving evidence 155. Exercise of discretionary power 156. Power of the Registrar to treat documents as confidential 157. Adaptation of entries to new classification 158. Costs awar ded by Registrar 159. Unregistered trademarks 160. Guidelines or practice directions by Registrar 161. Power to amend Schedules 162. Power to make regulations 163. Appeal from Registrar PART XIX REPEAL, SAVINGS AND TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS Chapter 1 Repeal and savings 164. Repeal and savings 

12 Laws of Malaysia ACT 815 Chapter 2 Transitional provisions for trademarks Section 165. Interpretation 166. Existing registered marks 167. Effects of registration in relation to infringement 168. Infringing goods, material or articles 169. Rights and remedies of licensee or authorized user 170. Co-proprietorship of registered mark 171. Assignment, etc., of registered mark 172. Licensing of registered mark 173. Pending applications for registration 174. Conversion of pending application 175. Trademarks registered according to old classification 176. Claim to priority of Convention application 177. Duration and renewal of registration 178. Pending application for alteration of registered mark 179. Revocation for non-use 180. Application for rectification, etc. 181. Rules as to use of certification mark 182. Agents 183. Guidelines, etc., on transitional matter s FIRST SCHEDULE SECOND SCHEDULE 

 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 815 TRADEMARKS ACT 2019 An Act to provide for the registration of trademarks in relation to goods and services and to implement the relevant treaties and for other matters connected therewith. [27 December 2019, P.U. (B) 655/2019] ENACTED by the Parliament of Malaysia as follows: PART I PRELIMINARY Short title and commencement 1. (1) This Act may be cited as the Trademarks Act 2019. (2) This Act comes into operation on a date to be appointed by the Minister by notification in the Gazette and the Minister may appoint different dates for the coming into operation of different Parts or provisions of this Act. Interpretation 2. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires — “Assistant Regist rar” and “Deputy Registrar” mean a person appointed under subsection 10(3) to be an Assistant Registrar of Trademarks or a Deputy Registrar of Trademarks; “certification mark” has the meaning assigned to it under subsection 73(1); 

14 Laws of Malaysia ACT 815 “collective mark” has th e meaning assigned to it under subsection 72(1); “Convention country” means a country which is a party to any multilateral treaty relating to trademarks to which Malaysia is also a party; “Convention application” means an application for prote ction of a trademark in a Convention country; “Corporation” means the Intellectual Property Corporation of Malaysia established under the Intellectual Property Corporation of Malaysia Act 2002 [Act 617]; “Court” means the High Court; “declared foreign country” means a country declared by the Minister under subsection 27(1); “distinctive character” means the trademark shall be capable of distinguishing goods or services — (a) which the proprietor of the trademark is or may be connected to in the course of trade from go ods or services; or (b) in the case of which no such connection subsists or where the trademark is registered or intended to be registered, subject to conditions, amendments, modifications or limitations, in relation to use within the extent of the registration; “geographical indication” has the meaning assigned to it under section 2 of the Geographical Indications Act 2000 [Act 602]; “International Register” means the official collection of data concerning international registration of trademarks maintaine d by the International Bureau of the World Intellectual Property Organization; “international registration” means registration of a trademark in 

Trademarks 15 the International Register; “licensee” means a person who is entitled to exercise his rights under Part X upon being authorized by a registered proprietor of trademark; “limitations” means limitations of the right to the exclusive use of a trademark given by the registration of the trademark including limitations of that right as to— (a) mode of use; (b) use within a territorial area within Malaysia; or (c) use in relation to goods to be exported to a market outside Malaysia or use in relation to services to be provided in a place outside Malaysia; “Paris Convention” means the Paris Convention for the Protection of Industrial Property of 20 March 1883 as revised from time to time; “prescribed” means, in relation to proceedings before the Court or preliminary thereto or connected therewith, prescribed by rules of court made by the Rules Committee constituted under the Courts of Judicature Act 1964 [ Act 91 ], and in other cases, prescribed by the Minister in the regulations made under this Act; “protected international registration designating Malaysia” means a trademark to which protection resulting from the inte rnational registration of the trademark is extended to Malaysia; “Register” means the Register of Trademarks kept under section 14; “registered proprietor” means the person for the time being entered in the Register as the registered proprietor of the trademarks; “registered trademark” has the meaning assigned to it under section 16; “registrable transactions” means transactions determined by the Registrar in the guidelines or practice directions under section 160; 

16 Laws of Malaysia ACT 815 “Registrar” means a person appointe d as a Registrar of Trademarks under subsection 10(1); “repealed Act” means the Trade Marks Act 1976 [Act 175]; “sign” includes any letter, word, name, signature, numeral, device, brand, heading, label, ticket, shape of goods or their packaging, colour, sound, scent, hologram, positioning, sequence of motion or any combination thereof; “this Act” includes any subsidiary legislation made under this Act; “trade” includes any business or profession; “transmission” means transmission by— (a) operation of law; (b) testamentary disposition; or (c) any other kind of transfer except assignment; “TRIPS Agreement” means the Agreement on Trade -Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights 1994 which constitutes Annex 1C to the Agreement Establishing the World Trade Organization. Definition of “trademark” 3. (1) “Trademark” means any sign capable of being represented graphically which is capable of distinguishing goods or services of one undertaking from those of other undertakings. (2) A sign may constitute a trademark even though it is used in relation to a service ancillary to the trade or business of an undertaking and whether or not the service is provided for money or money’s worth. (3) References in this Act to a trademark includes, unless the context otherwise require s, references to a collective mark or certification mark. 

Trademarks 17 Definition of “well-known trademark” 4. (1) “Well -known trademark” means any trademark that is well-known in Malaysia and that belongs to a person who— (a) is a national of a Convention country; or (b) is domiciled, or has a real and effective industrial or commercial establishment, in a Convention country, whether or not that person carries on business, or has any goodwill, in Malaysia. (2) In determining whether a trademark is well-known in Malaysia, the Registrar or the Court shall have regard to the criteria as prescribed. Definition of “earlier trademark” 5. “Earlier trademark” means — (a) a registered trademark or a protected international registration designating Malaysia, the application for registrati on of which was made earlier than the trademark in question, taking into account the priorities claimed in respect of the trademarks, where appropriate; or (b) a trademark which, at the date of application for registration of the trademark in question or of the priority claimed in respect of the application, where appropriate, was a well-known trademark, and includes a trademark in respect of which an application for registration has been made and which, if registered, would be an earlier trademark by virtue of paragraph (a) subject to it being so registered. 

18 Laws of Malaysia ACT 815 Definition of “infringing goods”, “infringing material”, “infringing articles”, “counterfeit goods” and “counterfeit trademarks” 6. (1) Goods are “infringing goods”, in relation to a registered trademark, if the goods or their packaging bear a sign identical with or similar to that trademark and— (a) the application of the sign to the goods or their packaging was an infringement of the registered trademark; (b) the goods are proposed to be imported into Malaysia and the application of the sign in Malaysia to them or their packaging would be an infringement of the registered trademark; or (c) the sign has otherwise been used in relation to the goods in such a way as to infringe the registered trademark. (2) Material is “infringing material”, in relation to a registered trademark, if it bears a sign identical with or similar to that trademark and either — (a) it is used for labelling or packaging goods, as a business paper, or for advertising goods or services, in such a way as to infringe the registered trademark; or (b) it is intended to be so used and such use would infringe the registered trademark. (3) “Infringing articles”, in relation to a registered trademark, means articles — (a) which are specifically designed or adapted for making copies of a sign identical with or similar to that trademark; and (b) which a person has in his possession, custody or control, knowing or having reason to believe that they have been or are to be used to produce infringing goods or material. 

Trademarks 19 (4) Goods are “counterfeit goods”, in relation to a registered trademark, if— (a) they are infringing goods in relation to that trademark; and (b) the sign borne by them or their packaging is a counterfeit trademark. (5) A sign is a “counterfeit trademark”, in relation to a registered trademark, if the sign— (a) is identical with the registered trademark as to be calculated to deceive; and (b) is applied to goods or services — ( i) without the express or implied consent, conditional or otherwise, of the registered proprietor; and ( ii) to falsely represent the goods or services to be the genuine goods or actual services of the registered proprietor or a licensee of the registered trademark. References to use of trademark 7. (1) References to the use of a trademark shall be construed as references to the use of a printed or other visual or non-visual representation of the trademark. (2) References to the use of a trademark in relation to goods shall be construed as reference to the use of the trademark upon, or in physical or other relation to, the goods. (3) References to the use of a trademark in relation to services shall be construed as references to the use of the trademark as a statement or as part of a statement about the services. (4) Any aural representation of a trademark shall be construed as references to the use of the trademark. 

20 Laws of Malaysia ACT 815 (5) Where a person has used a trademark with additions or alterations, the Registrar or the Court may decide that the person has used the trademark if it does not substantially affect the identity of the trademark as the Registrar or the Court thinks fit. Use of trademark for export trade or where form of trade changes 8. (1) Where a trademark is applied to goods to be exported from Malaysia and any other act is done in Malaysia in relation to the goods which if done in relation to goods to be sold or otherwise traded in Malaysia, such act would constitute use of a trademark in Malaysia in relation to those goods. (2) The use of a registered trademark in relation to goods or services where a form of connection in the course of trade subsists between the goods or services and the person using the trademark shall not be deemed to be likely to cause deception or confusion only on the ground that the trademark has been or is used in relation to goods or services where a different form of connection in the course of trade subsisted or subsists between the goods or services and that person or predecessor in title of that person. Determination of likelihood of confusion 9. (1) In determining whether the use of a trademark is likely to cause confusion on the part of the public, the Registrar or the Court may take into account all factors relevant in the circumstances, including whether the use is likely to be associated with an earlier trademark. (2) In determining whether th e use of a sign is likely to cause confusion on the part of the public, the Registrar or the Court may take into account all factors relevant in the circumstances, including whether the use is likely to be associated with a registered trademark. 

Trademarks 21 PART II ADMINISTRATION Registrar, Deputy Registrars and Assistant Registrars 10. (1) The Director General of the Corporation shall be the Registrar of Trademarks and have the control of the Trademarks Office. (2) The Registrar shall perform the duties imposed and exercise the powers conferred on him under this Act for the proper administration of this Act. (3) The Corporation may appoint, on such terms and conditions as the Corporation may determine, from amongst persons in the employment of the Corporation, such number of Deputy Registrars of Trademarks, Assistant Registrars of Trademarks and other officers as may be necessary for the proper administration of this Act. (4) Subject to the general direction and control of the Registrar and to such conditions or restricti ons as may be imposed by the Registrar, a Deputy Registrar or an Assistant Registrar may exercise any power of the Registrar under this Act. (5) The Registrar shall have a seal of such device as may be approved by the Corporation and the impressions of such seal shall be judicially noticed and admitted in evidence. Protection of Registrar, Deputy Registrars, Assistant Registrars and other officers 11. No action, suit, prosecution or other proceedings shall be brought, instituted or maintained in any court against— (a) the Registrar, Deputy Registrars, Assistant Registrars or any other officer, in respect of any act ordered or done for the purpose of carrying into effect this Act; and 

22 Laws of Malaysia ACT 815 (b) any other officer in respect of any act done or purported to be done by him under the order, direction or instruction of the Registrar, if the act was done in good faith and in a reasonable belief that it was necessary for the purpose intended to be served by it. Trademarks Office and other branch offices 12. (1) The Central Trade Mar ks Office and regional trade marks offices established under section 5 of the repealed Act shall be known as Trademarks Office and branch offices, respectively. ( 2 ) In addition to subsection (1), for the purposes of this Act, such number of branch offices of the Trademarks Office as may be necessary shall be established. ( 3 ) Any document required by this Act to be filed at the Trademarks Office may be filed at any branch office of the Trademarks Office and reference in this Act to the submission at the Trademarks Office includes reference to the submission at a branch office. ( 4 ) All communication with the Trademarks Office shall be in the national language or English language. Preliminary advice and search by Registrar 13. (1) The Registrar may give preliminary advic e and search result to any person who proposes to apply for the registration of trademark in the Register as to whether the trademark is prima facie a registrable trademark. (2) Any person may apply for a preliminary advice and search result in the form as determined by the Registrar together with the payment of the prescribed fee. (3) Notwithstanding that an application for the registration of trademark is made within the prescribed period and the Registrar has given preliminary advice or search result in the affirmative, the 

Trademarks 23 Registrar, after further investigation or consideration, may raise any refusal to the effect that the trademark is not registrable. (4) In the circumstances under subsection (3), the applicant shall be entitled to have any fee paid on the filing of the application refunded to him subject to the prescribed conditions, upon giving notice of the withdrawal of the application within the prescribed period. (5) The application made by the applicant in subsection (2), and the preliminary advice and search result given by the Registrar are confidential and shall not be made available for public inspection. PART III THE REGISTER OF TRADEMARKS Register of Trademarks 14. (1) The Registrar shall keep and maintain a register called the Register of Trademarks. ( 2 ) The Register shall contain all such matters and particulars relating to trademarks as prescribed. ( 3 ) The Register shall be kept in such form as determined by the Registrar. Inspection of Register 15. (1) The Register shall be made available for public inspect ion subject to the conditions as prescribed upon application in the form as determined by the Registrar together with the payment of the prescribed fee. (2) Subject to the conditions in subsection (1), certified copies or extracts of any entry in the Register sealed with the seal of the Registrar shall be given to any person upon application in the form as determined by the Registrar together with the payment of the prescribed fee. 

24 Laws of Malaysia ACT 815 PART IV REGISTRATION OF TRADEMARKS Chapter 1 Introductory Registered trademark 16. A registered trademark shall be a property right obtained by the registration of trademark under this Act and a registered proprietor of the trademark has the rights and remedies provided under this Act. Chapter 2 Application for registration of trademark Application for registration of trademark 17. (1) Any person who claims to be the bona fide proprietor of a trademark may apply for the registration of the trademark if— (a) the person is using or intends to use the trademark in the course of trade; or (b) the person has authorized or intends to authorize another person to use the trademark in the course of trade. (2) An application for the registration of trademark shall be made in the form as determined by the Registrar within the prescribed period togeth er with the payment of the prescribed fee. (3) If the trademark applied for registration contains or consists of a word which is not in Roman characters, or the national language or English language, the applicant shall, within the prescribed period, furnish the Registrar with the following: (a) the transliteration of the trademark; (b) the translation of the trademark; or 

Trademarks 25 (c) any information as determined by the Registrar. (4) If the requirements under subsection (2) or (3) are not complied with within the prescribed period, the application shall be deemed withdrawn. (5) A person who applies for the registration of trademark may request to the Registrar for an expedited examination by filing an application in the form as determined by the Registrar within the prescribed p eriod together with the payment of the prescribed fee. Application in multiple classes 18. (1) An application under subsection 17(2) may be made in a single application listing goods or services belonging to several classes of classification to the Registra r. (2) An application under subsection (1) shall result in one registration. Classification of goods or services 19. (1) Goods or services shall be classified for the purposes of the registration of trademarks in accordance with a system of classification as prescribed. (2) If any question arises as to the class within which any goods or services are comprised, that question shall be decided by the Registrar. Colour of trademark 20. (1) The applicant may apply to limit, in whole or in part, to one or more specified colours of the trademark. ( 2) For the purposes of subsection (1) or in the case where the applicant does not apply to limit, in whole or in part, to one or more specified colours of the trademark, the Registrar may limit, in whole or in part, to one or more specified colours of the trademark in determining whether the trademark is distinctive. 

26 Laws of Malaysia ACT 815 ( 3) Where a trademark is registered without limitations as to colour, it shall be deemed to be registered for all colours. Series of trademarks 21. (1) A person may make a single application under subsection 17(2) for the registration of a number of trademarks if the trademarks — (a) resemble each other in material particulars; and (b) differ only in respect of one or more of the following matters: (i) statements or represent ations as to the goods or services in relation to which the trademarks are used or intended to be used; (ii) statements or representations as to number, price or quality; (iii) standard fonts which does not substantially affect the identity of the trademarks; or (iv) the colour of any part of the trademark ( 2) If the application meets all the requirements under subsection (1), the Registrar shall register the trademarks as a series in one registration. ( 3) A trademark which has been registered as part of a series trademark may be used independently. Date of filing 22. (1) The Registrar shall record the date of receipt of an application for registration of trademark made in accordance with section 17 as the date of filing. (2) Where the requirement under section 17 is fulfilled on different days, the Registrar shall record the date of filing on the 

Trademarks 27 last day of those days. (3) Any date of priority claimed under section 26, 27 or 28 shall have no effect on the date of filing of application recorded under subsection (1) or (2) except for the purposes of a search under subsection 29(2). Chapter 3 Grounds for refusal of registration Absolute grounds for refusal of registration 23. (1) Subject to subsection (2), the Registrar shall refuse to register a trademark based on the following absolu te grounds for refusal of registration: (a) signs which are not capable of being represented graphically and not capable of distinguishing goods or services of one undertaking from those of other undertakings; (b) trademarks which are devoid of any distinctive character; (c) trademarks which consist exclusively of signs or indications which may serve, in trade, to designate the kind, quality, quantity, intended purpose, value, geographical origin, other characteristics of goods or services or the time of production of goods or of rendering of services; or (d) trademarks which consist exclusively of signs or indications which have become customary in the current language of the territory or in the bona fide and established practices of the trade. ( 2 ) Notwithstanding paragra phs (1)(b), (c) and (d), the Registrar shall not refuse to register an application of a trademark if, before the date of application for registration, the trademark has in fact acquired a distinctive character as a result of its use. ( 3 ) The Registrar shall refuse to register a sign as a trademark 

28 Laws of Malaysia ACT 815 if the sign consists exclusively of— (a) the shape which results from the nature of the goods themselves; (b) the shape of goods which is necessary to obtain a technical result; or (c) the shape which gives substantial value to the goods. ( 4 ) Notwithstanding subsections (1) and (2), the Registrar shall refuse to register the following as a trademark if: (a) the trademark consists exclusively of the name of a country; or (b) the trademark contains or consists of recognized geographical indications. ( 5 ) In addition to the grounds in subsections (1), (3) and (4), the Registrar shall refuse to register a trademark based on any of the following absolute grounds for refusal of registration: (a) if the use of the trademark is likely to deceive or cause confusion to the public or contrary to any written law; (b) if it is of such a nature as to deceive or mislead the public as to the nature, quality or geographical origin of the goods or services; (c) the trademarks are contrary to public interest or to morality; (d) the trademarks contain or consist of any scandalous or offensive matter or would otherwise not be entitled to protection by any court of law; (e) the trademarks contain a matter which is in the opinion of the Registrar is or might be prejudicia l to the interest or security of the country; (f) the trademarks contain or consist of the name or 

Trademarks 29 representation of another person whether living or dead unless the applicant furnishes the Registrar with the consent of that person, if living, or of the repre sentative of that person if deceased; (g) the trademarks contain or consist of flag of a country, national emblem, emblem, insignia or royal arms unless the applicant furnishes the Registrar with the authorization of the competent authorities or international intergovernmental organization as specified in section 78 or 79, as the case may be; (h) the trademarks contain or consist of a word which is commonly used as or is the accepted name of any single chemical element or single chemical compound, as distinguishe d from a mixture, or which is declared by the World Health Organization as an international non-proprietary name or which is deceptively similar to such name unless it is used— (i) to denote only a brand or to make the element or compound as made by the proprietor of the trademark or the licensee as distinguished from the element or compound as made by others; and (ii) in association with a suitable name or description open to public use; or (i) the trademarks contain or consist of any of the following signs or a sign similar to any of those signs as is likely to be taken for that sign: (i) the word “Patent”, “Patented”, “By Royal Letters Patent”, “Registered”, “Registered Design”, and “Copyright” or words to the like effect in any language whatsoever; or (ii) any sign as prescribed. 

30 Laws of Malaysia ACT 815 Relative grounds for refusal of registration 24. (1) The Registrar shall refuse to register a trademark if it is identical with an earlier trademark and the goods or services for which the trademark is applied for are identical with the goods or services of the earlier trademark. (2) The Registrar shall refuse to register a trademark if there exists a likelihood of confusion on the part of the public — (a) where the trademark is identical with an earlier trademark and is to be registered for goods or services similar to the earlier trademark; or (b) where the trademark is similar to an earlier trademark and is to be registered for goods or services identical with or similar to the earlier trademark. (3) The Registrar shall refuse to register a trademark if— (a) it is identical with or similar to a well-known trademark which is not registered in Malaysia and it is to be registered for the identical goods or services of the proprietor of the well -known trademark; or (b) it is identical with or similar to a well-known trademark which is registered in Malaysia and it is to be registered for goods or services which are not identical or not similar to those in respect of which the well-known trademark is registered and— (i) the use of the trademark in relation to those goo ds or services would indicate a connection between those goods or services and the proprietor of the well-known trademark; (ii) there exists a likelihood of confusion on the part of the public because of such use; and (iii) the interests of the proprietor of the well-known trademark are likely to be damaged by such use. (4) Subject to subsection (6), the Registrar shall refuse to register a trademark if, or to the extent that, its use in Malaysia is 

Trademarks 31 prevented — (a) by virtue of any rule of law protecting an unregistered trademark or other sign used in the course of trade including under the law of passing off; or (b) by virtue of an earlier right other than those referred to in paragraph (a) or in subsections (1) to (3) including under the law of copyright or industrial design s. (5) A person entitled to prevent the use of a trademark is referred to in this Act as the proprietor of an “earlier right” in relation to the trademark in subsection (4). (6) The Registrar may refuse to register a trademark on any grounds under subsection (4) if that ground is raised in proceedings in opposition to the registration under section 35 by the proprietor of the earlier right. (7) Notwithstanding the relative grounds for refusal of registration under subsections (1), (2), (3) and (4), the Registrar may register a trademark if the proprietor of the earlier trademark or other earlier right consents to the registration in the prescribed manner and shall take into account the interest of the public and the likelihood of confusion on the part of the public. (8) For the purposes of this section, if the registration of an earlier trademark expires, the Registrar, in determining the registrability of a trademark shall continue to take into account the earlier trademark for a period of twelve months after its expiry. Honest concurrent use, etc. 25. (1) Nothing in section 24 shall prevent the registration of trademark where the Registrar or the Court is satisfied — (a) that there has been an honest concurrent use of the trademark and the earlier trademark or other earlier right; or (b) that by reason of other special circumstances it is proper 

32 Laws of Malaysia ACT 815 for the trademark to be registered. (2) The registration of trademark under subsection ( 1) shall be subject to such limitations and conditions as the Registrar or the Court thinks fit to impose. (3) Nothing in this section — (a) shall prevent the Registrar from refusing to register a trademark on any of the grounds under section 23; or (b) shall affect the making of an application for a declaration of invalidity under subsection 47(3). Chapter 4 Priority Claim to priority of Convention application 26. (1) A person, or his successor in title, who has duly filed a Convention application, has a right to priority, for the purposes of filing an application for registration of the same trademark for some or all of the same goods or services, for a period of six months from the date of filing of the first of such application. (2) For the purposes of subsection (1)— (a) the date of filing of the first Convention application shall be the relevant date in establi shing which rights take precedence; and (b) the registrability of the application of the trademark shall not be affected by any use of the trademark in Malaysia in the period between the date of filing of the first Convention application and the date of the application of the same trademark under this Act. (3) Where a right of priority is claimed by reason of a Convention application under subsection (1), the application for registration of the same trademark shall specify— 

Trademarks 33 (a) the date of filing of the first Convention application; (b) the Convention country in which the Convention application was first filed; (c) the application or registration number of the Convention application accorded by the registering or other competent authority of the relevant Convention countr y; and (d) the goods or services to which the claim relates. (4) Any filing which in a Convention country is equivalent to a regular national filing, under its domestic legislation or an international agreement, shall be treated as giving rise to the right of priority. (5) A subsequent application concerning the same subject as the first Convention application, filed in the same Convention country, shall be considered the first Convention application (of which the filing date is the starting date of the period of priority), if at the time of the subsequent application — (a) the previous application has been withdrawn, abandoned or refused, without having been laid open to public inspection and without leaving any rights outstanding; and (b) it has not yet served as a basis for claiming a right of priority. (6) For the purposes of subsection (5), the previous application may not serve as a basis for claiming a right of priority. (7) A right to priority arising as a result of a Convention application may be assigned or transmi tted together with the application or independently and the reference in subsection (1) to the applicant’s “successor in title” shall be construed accordingly. (8) For the purposes of this section, a “regular national filing” means a filing which is adequate to establish the date on which the application was filed in that country, whatever may be the subsequent fate of the application. 

34 Laws of Malaysia ACT 815 Claim to priority from other relevant overseas application 27. (1) The Minister may, by order published in the Gazette, declare a country as having made arrangements with Malaysia for the reciprocal protection of trademark. (2) In relation to a declared foreign country, this section shall apply only for the duration of the period the order continues in force in respect of that country. (3) For the purposes of this section, all requirements and procedures in section 26 shall be applicable. Claim to priority from temporary protection of trademark which is the subject matters of international exhibition given under Article 11 of Paris Convention 28. (1) Notwithstanding anything in this Act, an applicant for registration of a trademark may apply for temporary protection which shall be granted to a trademark which is the subject matter of an exhibition at an official or officially recognized inte rnational exhibition held in Malaysia or in any Convention country or declared foreign country. (2) The temporary protection granted under subsection (1) shall not extend any period of priority claimed by an applicant in section 26 and where a right of priori ty is claimed by an applicant subsequent to the temporary protection, the period of priority shall remain six months and which shall commence from the date of the introduction of the goods or services into the exhibition. (3) An applicant for registration of trademark whose goods or services are the subject matters of an exhibition at an official or officially recognized international exhibition in Malaysia or in any Convention country or declared foreign country and who applies for registration of that trademark in Malaysia within six months from the date on which the goods or services first became the subject matter of the exhibition shall, on his request, be treated as giving rise to the right of priority for search purposes under subsection 29(2) when the goods or services first became the subject matters of the exhibition. 

Trademarks 35 (4) Evidence that the goods or services bearing the trademark are the subject matters of an exhibition at an official or officially recognized international exhibition shall be by a certificate issued by the competent authorities of the exhibition and to be filed with the Registrar upon filing the application for registration of trademark in Malaysia. Chapter 5 Examination Examination of application 29. (1) The Registrar shall examine whether an application for registration of trademark fulfills the requirements for registration under this Act. ( 2 ) For the purpose of an examination under subsection (1), the Registrar shall carry out a search, to such extent as he considers necessary, of earlier trademarks. ( 3 ) Upon examination, where the Registrar finds that the application fulfills the requirements for registration of trademark, the Registrar shall accept the application. ( 4 ) Where the Registrar accepts the application for registration of trademark , the Registrar shall record the date of filing of the application under section 22 as the date of filing. ( 5 ) If the application for registration of trademark does not fulfill any requirements for registration of trademark, the Registrar shall inform the grounds of provisional refusal to the applicant by a written notice and the applicant shall have an opportunity to— (a) make representations; (b) amend the application so as to meet the conditions, amendments, modifications or limitations, as the Registrar deems fit to impose; or (c) furnish additional or any other information or evidence, within such period as the Registrar may specify in the 

36 Laws of Malaysia ACT 815 written notice. ( 6 ) For the purposes of subsection (5)— (a) the application shall be deemed withdrawn if the applicant does not respond within such period as specified by the Registrar in the written notice; and (b) the Registrar shall refuse the application if the applicant’s response does not satisfy the Registrar that those requirements are fulfilled and the Registrar shall, if required by the applicant, state in writing the grounds of the total provisional refusal. ( 7 ) The Registrar, upon the request of the applicant, may defer any action in relation to the application for registration of trademark under prescribed circumstances and for a prescribed period. ( 8 ) Where an appeal lies to the Court against the decision of the Registrar relating to a total provisional refusal under paragraph (6)(b)— (a) the appeal shall be made in the prescribed manner; (b) the Court shall, where necessary, hear the applicant and the Registrar; and (c) the appeal shall be heard on the material stated by the Registrar to have been used by the Registrar in arriving at his decision and no further grounds of provisional refusal to the acceptance of the application shall be allowed to be taken by the Registrar other than those so stated except by leave of the Court. ( 9 ) For the purposes of paragraph (8) (c), where any further grounds of provisional refusal are taken, the applicant shall be entitled to withdraw his application without payment of costs on giving notice in the prescribed manner. ( 1 0 ) In determining an appeal under subsection (8), the Court shall make an order subject to any conditions, amendments, modifications or limitations, if any, the application for registration of trademark is to be accepted. ( 1 1 ) Any application for registration of trademark filed and accepted under this section shall, notwithstanding any conditions, 

Trademarks 37 amendments, modifications or limitations permitted by the Registrar or the Court to be made in such applica tion, be deemed to have been made on the date of application. ( 1 2 ) Without prejudice to subsection (11), where after the acceptance of an application for registration of trademark but before the registration of the trademark, the Registrar is satisfied — (a) that the application has been accepted in error; or (b) that in the special circumstances of the case, the trademark shall not be registered or shall be registered subject to additional or different conditions or limitations, the Registrar may revoke the accepta nce and proceed as if the application had not been accepted or, in respect only of a trademark which shall be registered subject to additional or different conditions or limitations, reissue a new acceptance subject to additional or different conditions or limitations. Voluntary disclaimer, condition or limitation 30. (1) An applicant for the registration of a trademark may apply in the form as determined by the Registrar — (a) to disclaim any right to the exclusive use of any specified element of the trademark ; or (b) to agree that the rights arising out of the registration shall be subject to certain conditions or limitations imposed by the Registrar. (2) The Registrar may refuse any application under paragraph (1)(a) if the application contains or consists of any matters which is not allowed under the absolute and relative grounds for refusal of registration under sections 23 and 24. (3) A disclaimer made by the applicant, or condition or limitation imposed by the Registrar, under subsection (1), shall not be revoked if the application has been accepted by the Registrar. 

38 Laws of Malaysia ACT 815 Publication of acceptance 31. (1) If the application for registration of trademark is accepted, the Registrar shall publish the application in the Intellectual Property Official Journal. (2) The publica tion under subsection (1) shall contain all disclaimers, conditions, amendments, modifications or limitations subject to which the application has been accepted. Chapter 6 Withdrawal, restriction or amendment of application for registration of trademark Withdrawal or restriction of application for registration of trademark 32. (1) An applicant may, before the registration of trademark to which his application relates, withdraw his application or restrict the goods or services covered by the application by filing a request in the form as determined by the Registrar. (2) Any person may withdraw the application or restrict the goods or services if the right or interest relied on in the filing of the application, notice or request has become vested in him. (3) The person referred to in subsection (2) shall notify the Registrar in the prescribed manner that the right or interest has become vested in him. (4) If the acceptance of the application for registration of a trademark has been published under section 31, a notice of the withdrawal or restriction of the goods or services of that application shall also be published. (5) Any withdrawal or restriction made under this section shall not be revoked if the application for withdrawal or restriction has been given effect by the Registrar. 

Trademarks 39 Amendment of application for registration of trademark 33. (1) The Registrar may, at the request of the applicant, amend an application for the registration of a trademark at any time before registration. (2) The request under subsection (1) sha ll be made in the form as determined by the Registrar together with the payment of the prescribed fee. (3) Any amendment to an application for the registration of trademark shall only be made in relation to— (a) the name or address of the applicant; (b) errors of wording or copying; or (c) obvious mistakes, and only where the amendment does not substantially affect the identity of the trademark or extend the goods or services covered by the application. Chapter 7 Opposition Grounds of opposition 34. (1) Subject to subsection 35(3), the registration of trademark may be opposed by a registered proprietor if he or his predecessor in business or a person who is under his control or authority has continuously used the trademark — (a) from a date before the use of the applicant ’s trademark or his predecessor in business or by a person who is under his control or authority; or (b) from a date before the date of filing of the application by the applicant. (2) Notwithstanding subsection (1), the registration of trademark may be opposed by any person — 

40 Laws of Malaysia ACT 815 (a) on any grounds under section 23 or 24; (b) on the ground that the applicant is not the proprietor of the trademark; or (c) subject to subsection (3), on the ground that— (i) it is identical with a well-known trademark in Malaysia and it is to be registered for goods or services which are not identical or not similar to the well-known trademark in Malaysia; or (ii) it is similar to a well -known trademark in Malaysia and it is to be registered for goods or services which are not identical or not similar to the well-known trademark in Malaysia. (3) The ground of opposition under paragraph (2) (c) may be raised where the use of the opposed trademark in relation to the goods or services for which the opposed trademark is sought to be registered — (a) would indicate a connection between those goods or services and the proprietor of the earlier well -known trademark; (b) would create a likelihood of confusion on the part of the public because of such use by the opposed trademark; and (c) would likely damage the interests of the proprietor of the well-known trademark. (4) The ground of opposition referred to in paragraph (2)(c) may only be raised to oppose the registration of an application for registration of trademark made on or after the commencement of this Act. 

Trademarks 41 Opposition proceedings 35. (1) Any person may file a notice of opposition in the form as determined by the Registrar together with the payment of the prescribed fee and send the notice of opposition to the applicant within the prescribed period from the date of the publication of the acceptance of an application for the registration of the opposed trademark. (2) The notice of opposition shall include a statement of the grounds of the opposition containing any grounds specified under section 34. (3) An opposition may proceed in the name of a person other than the person who filed the notice if— (a) after the person has filed a notice of opposition, the right or interest on which the person relied to file the notice of opposition becomes vested to the other person; and (b) the other person in paragraph (a)— (i) notifies the Registrar in the prescribed manner that the right or interest is vested in him; and (ii) does not withdraw the opposition. (4) The applicant shall file a counterstatement in the form as determined by the Registrar together with the payment of the prescribed fee, within the prescribed period after the receipt of the notice of opposition and if the applicant does not do so, the application shall be deemed withdrawn. (5) The counterstatement in subsection (4) shall include the grounds upon which the applicant relies on for the application. (6) The opponent and applicant shall file evidence and exhibits in the prescribed manner within the prescribed period in support of the opposition or the counterstatement, as the case may be, and if the opponent or applicant does not do so, the opposition or application, as the case may be, shall be deemed withdrawn. 

42 Laws of Malaysia ACT 815 (7) If the applicant files evidence and exhibits under subsection (6), the opponent may file evidence in reply in the prescribed manner. (8) In considering the evidence and exhibits and after giving the applicant and the opponent an opportunity of making written submissions, the Registrar shall decide whether — (a) to refuse to register the trademark; (b) to register the trademark absolutely; or (c) to register the trademark subject to such conditions, amendments, modifications, disclaimers or limitations as he thinks fit. (9) The Registrar, upon request by the opponent or applicant in the form as determined by the Registrar together with the payment of the prescribed fee, may defer any action in relation to the opposition proceedings under prescribed circumstances and for a prescribed period. (10) Where an appeal lies to the Court against the decision of the Registrar refusing to register a trademark or refusing to register a trademark absolutely, or registering the trademark subject to conditions, amendments, modifications, disclaimers or limitations under this section — (a) the appeal shall be made in the prescribed manner; (b) the Court shall, where necessary, hear the parties and the Registrar; and (c) any party may, either in the manner prescribed or by special leave of the Court, bring forward further material for the consideration of the Court but no further grounds of opposition to the registration of trademark shall be allowed to be taken by the opponent other than those stated by the opponent except by leave of the Court. (11) Where any further grounds of opposition are taken, the applicant shall be entitled to withdraw his application without payment of the costs of the opponent on giving notice as prescribed. 

Trademarks 43 (12) In any appeal under this section, the Court may, after hearing the Registrar, permit the trademark intended to be registered to be modified in any manner not substantially affecting the identity of the trademark, but in any such case the trademark as modified shall be published in the Intellectual Property Official Journal before being registered. (13) If a person giving notice of opposition, an applicant sending a counterstatement, or an appellant, neither reside s nor carries on business in Malaysia, the Registrar or the Court may require him to give security for costs of the proceedings relating to the opposition, application or appeal, as the case may be, and in default of such security being duly given, the Reg istrar or the Court may deem the opposition, application, or appeal, as the case may be, as withdrawn. Chapter 8 Registration Registration 36. (1) When an application for registration of trademark has been accepted and either — (a) the application has not bee n opposed and the period for opposition has expired; or (b) the application has been opposed and the opposition has been decided in favour of the applicant, the Registrar shall, unless the application has been accepted in error, register the trademark in the Register in the name of the proprietor, and the trademark so registered shall be registered as at the date of filing of application for registration and that date shall be deemed to be the date of registration. (2) On the registration of trademark, the Registrar shall issue to the proprietor a notification of the registration of trademark with the seal of the Registrar. (3) If the registered proprietor intends to obtain a certificate of 

44 Laws of Malaysia ACT 815 registration, the Registrar shall issue the certificate of registration which shall be equivalent to the notification of registration issued under subsection (2). (4) An application for a certificate of registration under subsection (3) shall be made by the registered proprietor in the form as determined by the Registrar together with the payment of the prescribed fee. PART V DIVISION AND MERGER Application for division 37. (1) An application for the registration of trademark or the registration of trademark may, upon the request of the applicant or registered proprietor, be divided into two or more separate applications for the registration or registration of trademark. (2) The request under subsection (1) shall be made to the Registrar before or after the trademark is registered in the form as determined by the Registrar togethe r with the payment of the prescribed fee. Application for merger 38. (1) Two or more separate applications for registration of trademark or registration of trademark may, upon the request of the applicant or registered proprietor, be merged into one applica tion for registration of trademark or one registration of trademark. (2) The request under subsection (1) shall be made to the Registrar before or after the trademark is registered in the form as determined by the Registrar together with the payment of the prescribed fee. 

Trademarks 45 PART VI DURATION AND RENEWAL OF REGISTERED TRADEMARKS Duration and renewal of registration 39. (1) The registration of trademark shall be for a period of ten years from the date of registration and may be renewed under subsection (2) for a further periods of ten years. (2) The registration of trademark may be renewed, for some or all of the classes of goods or services, at the request of the registered proprietor in the form as determined by the Registrar together with the payment of the prescribed fee. (3) If some of the classes of goods or services of the registration are to be renewed, section 37 may be applicable. (4) Where the request for renewal is made on or before the date of expiry of the registration, the fee payable shall be the renewal fee as prescribed. (5) Where the request for renewal is made within the period of six months after the date of expiry of the registration, the fees payable shall be the renewal fee as prescribed and a surcharge shall be imposed. (6) A request for renewal shall be made not later than six months after the date of expiry of the registration. (7) Renewal shall take effect from the expiry of the previous registration. (8) If the registration is not renewed in accordance with this section and regulations referred to in subsection (4) or (5), the trademark shall be deemed removed. (9) Where the trademark has been deemed removed, the registered proprietor may request for restoration for his removed registration within six months from the date of removal in the form as determined by the Registrar together with the payment of the restoration fee as prescribed. 

46 Laws of Malaysia ACT 815 (10) If restoration is not applied for under subsection (9) within six months from the date the trademark is deemed removed, the registration shall cease. (11) The renewal or restoration of the registration of a trademark shall be published in the Intellectual Property Official Journal. Status of unrenewed trademark 40. (1) In a case of unrenewed trademark where— (a) the registration of trademark is not renewed; or (b) the registration of trademark has been deemed removed and has not been restored, a person other than the person who was registered as the proprietor of the unrenewed trademark may apply for the registration of trademark. ( 2) Where an application for the registration of an unrenewed trademark is made by a person other than the person who was registered as the proprietor of the unrenewed trademark, the unrenewed trademark is taken to be a registered trademark for the purposes of an examination in subsection 29(2) of the application at any time when the registration of the unrenewed trademark could have been renewed and restored under section 39. Cessation of registration 41. The registration of a trademark ceases if— (a) the trademark has ceased under subsection 39(10), been revoked under section 45 or 46 or been invalidated under section 47; or (b) the registration of trademark is cancelled under section 44. 

Trademarks 47 PART VII ALTERATION, CORRECTION, CANCELLATION, REVOCATION AND INVALIDITY Alteration of registered trademark 42. (1) Subject to subsection (2), a registered trademark shall not be altered in the Register. (2) The Registrar may, at the request of the registered proprietor in the form as determined by the Registrar together with the payment of the prescribed fee, allow the alteration of the registered trademark includes the proprietor’s name or address, the alteration is limited to the alteration of that name or address. (3) The alteration of a registered trademark under subsection (2) shall not substantially affect the identity of the trademark. Correction of Register 43. (1) The Registrar may, on the request of the registered proprietor in the form as determined by the Registrar together with the payment of the prescribed fee— (a) correct an error or enter any change in the name, address or descript ion of the registered proprietor; (b) correct the details of description of the goods or services in respect of which the trademark is registered without extending in any way the rights given by the existing registration of trademark; or (c) enter a disclaimer r elating to the trademark without extending in any way the rights given by the existing registration of trademark. (2) The Registrar may, at the request of a licensee of a trademark in the form as determined by the Registrar together with the payment of the prescribed fee, correct an error or enter any change in the name, address or description of that licensee. (3) The Registrar may make any correction in the Register 

48 Laws of Malaysia ACT 815 consequential to subsections (1) and (2) and may, at his discretion, correct any clerical error or omission in respect of any registration of trademark in the Register. (4) A notification of registration shall be issued by the Registrar on the approval of the corrections as requested under subsections (1) and (2), and the making, if any, of corrections under subsection (3). (5) Notwithstanding subs ections (1) to (4), subject to prescribed procedures relating to an application for correction, any person having sufficient interest may apply to the Court for the correction of any error or omission in the Register. (6) Any application for correction under subsection (5) shall not be made in respect of a matter affecting the validity of the registration of a trademark. (7) Except where the Court directs otherwise, where a correction is made in the Register, the error or omission relating to the correction shall be deemed never to have been made. Voluntary cancellation of registered trademark 44. (1) The Registrar shall cancel the registration of trademark in respect of some or all of the goods or services upon the reques t of the registered proprietor in the form as determined by the Registrar together with the payment of the prescribed fee. (2) Before cancelling the registration of the trademark, the Registrar shall notify — (a) any person recorded under Part IX as claiming a right in respect of, or an interest in, the trademark; and (b) the person to whom the trademark has been assigned or transmitted in the case where the assignment or transmission of the trademark has not yet been recorded by the Registrar after an application has been made to the Registrar to record such assignment or transmission of the trademark. 

Trademarks 49 Revocation of registration by Registrar 45. (1) The Registrar shall revoke the registration of trademark — (a) where a notice of opposition to the registration was filed, in accordance with subsection 35(1), the Registrar failed to take into account the opposition in deciding to register the trademark; or (b) where before the registration, any person had applied for an extension of time for filing a notice of opposition to the registration, the Registrar failed to take into account the application for extension of time in deciding to register the trademark. (2) The revocation under subsection (1) shall be subject to the Registrar becoming aware of his failure to take into account the opposition or application for extension of time to file a notice of opposition within two months after the notice was filed or the application was made. (3) The Registrar shall revoke the registration of trademark within one month from becoming aware of his failure to take into account the opposition or the application for extension of time. (4) Notwithstanding subsections (1), (2) and (3), the Registrar may revoke the registration of trademark, within twelve months from the date of registration of trademark , if the Registrar is satisfied that it is reasonable to revoke the registration, taking into account — (a) any relevant obligations of Malaysia under an international agreement or convention; or (b) any special circumstances making it appropriate — (i) not to register the trademark; or (ii) to register the trademark only if the registration were subject to disclaimer, conditions, amendments, modifications or limitations to which the registration was not made subject. (5) Notwithstanding subsection (2), if the Registrar becomes aware of the failure later, he may be able to revoke the registration under subsection (4). 

50 Laws of Malaysia ACT 815 (6) Before the revocation of the trademark, the Registrar shall give a notice of the proposed revocation in the manner as determined by the Registrar to the following persons: (a) the registered proprietor of the trademark; and (b) any person recorded under Part IX as claiming a right in respect of, or an interest in, the trademark. (7) The Registrar shall not revoke the registration of trademark without giving an opportun ity to be heard to the following persons: (a) the registered proprietor of the trademark; or (b) any person recorded under Part IX as claiming a right in respect of, or an interest in, the trademark. (8) Where the Registrar revokes a registration under this section — (a) the registration shall be deemed to have never occurred; and (b) the registration which has been revoked shall be subject to further examination or proceedings as determined by the Registrar. (9) It shall not be the duty of the Registrar to consider whether or not to revoke any registration notwithstanding any request for the Registrar to do so. Revocation of registration by Court as to non-use of trademark 46. (1) The registration of a trademark may be revoked by the Court on an application by an aggrieved per son on any of the grounds as follows: (a) where within a period of three years following the date of issuance of the notification of registration, the trademark has not been put to use in good faith in Malaysia, by the registered proprietor or with his consent, in relation to the goods or services for which the trademark is registered, and there are no proper reasons for non-use; 

Trademarks 51 (b) where the use of the goods or services under paragraph (a) has been suspended for an uninterrupted period of three years, and there are no proper reasons for non-use; (c) where in consequence of acts or inactivity of the registered proprietor, it has become the common name in the trade for the product or service for which it is registered; or (d) where in consequence of the use of the trademark by the registered proprietor or with his consent in relation to the goods or services for which the trademark is registered, it is liable to mislead the public, including in respect of the nature, quality or geographical origin of those goods or services. (2) Subject to subsection (3), the registration of trademark shall not be revoked on the ground under paragraph (1) (a) or (b) if such use as is referred to in that paragraph is begun or resumed after the expiry of the three year period and before the a pplication for revocation is made. (3) Any such use referred to in paragraph (1) (a) or (b) that has begun or resumed after the expiry of the three year period but within the period of three months before the making of the application for revocation shall be disregarded unless preparations of such use began before the proprietor became aware that the application for revocation might be made. (4) Where grounds for revocation exist in respect of only some of the goods or services for which the trademark is registere d, revocation shall relate to those goods or services only. (5) Where the registration of trademark is revoked to any extent, the rights of the registered proprietor shall be deemed to have ceased to that extent as from— (a) the date of the application for revocation; or (b) if the Court is satisfied that the grounds for revocation exists at an earlier date, that date. 

52 Laws of Malaysia ACT 815 Invalidation of registration by Court 47. (1) The registration of trademark may be declared invalid by the Court upon the application by an aggrieve d person on the ground that the trademark was registered in breach of section 23. ( 2 ) Notwithstanding subsection (1), where the trademark was registered in breach of paragraph 23(1) (b), (c) or (d), it shall not be declared invalid if, the registration of trademark has acquired a distinctive character after its registration in consequence of its use in relation to the goods or services for which it is registered. ( 3 ) The registration of trademark may be declared invalid by the Court upon the application by an aggrieved person on the ground that— (a) there is an earlier trademark under subsection 24(1), (2) or (3); or (b) there is an earlier right under subsection 24(4). ( 4 ) The registration of trademark may not be declared invalid under subsection (3) if the proprietor of that earlier tradema rk or earlier right has consented to the registration. ( 5 ) Where a trademark has been registered on the ground that there has been an honest concurrent use of the trademark and the earlier trademark or other earlier right, as provided for by section 25, the registration of trademark may not be declared invalid under subsection (3) unless the Registrar or the Court is satisfied that in fact there had been no honest concurrent use of the trademark and the earlier trademark or other earlier ri ght. ( 6 ) The registration of trademark may be declared invalid by the Court upon the application by an aggrieved person or the Registrar on the ground of fraud in the registration or that the registration was obtained by misrepresentation. ( 7 ) Where the ground o f invalidity exists in respect of only some of the goods or services for which the trademark is registered, the trademark shall be declared invalid as regards those goods or services only. 

Trademarks 53 ( 8 ) Where the registration of trademark is declared invalid to any exte nt, the registration shall to that extent be deemed never to have been made, but this shall not affect transactions past and closed . PART VIII EFFECTS OF REGISTERED TRADEMARKS Chapter 1 Rights of registered proprietor of trademark Rights conferred by registered trademark 48. (1) The registered proprietor of trademark has the exclusive rights — (a) to use the trademark; and (b) to authorize other persons to use the trademark, in relation to the goods or services for which the trademark is registered. (2) The registered proprietor has the right to obtain relief for infringement of his trademark. (3) The acts amounting to infringement of a trademark are set out in section 54 and references to the infringement of a registered trademark shall be construed accordingly. (4) The rights shall accrue to the proprietor as from the date of registration of trademark except that— (a) no infringement proceedings may be begun before the date on which the trademark is in fact registered; and (b) no offence under sections 99 to 102 is committed by anything done before the date on which the trademark is in fact registered. 

54 Laws of Malaysia ACT 815 (5) If the trademark is registered subject to any disclaimers, conditions, amendments, modifications or limitations, the rights of the proprietor are restricted by the disclaime rs, conditions, amendments, modifications or limitations. Limitation on rights if similar trademarks, etc., registered by different persons 49. If trademarks that are identical or similar have been registered by more than one person whether in respect of the same or different goods or services under section 25, the registered proprietor of any one of those trademarks does not have the right to prevent the registered proprietor of any other of those trademarks from using that trademark except to the extent that the first-mentioned proprietor is authorized to do so under the registration of his trademark. Trademark consisting of sign that becomes accepted as sign describing article, etc. 50. (1) This section applies if a registered trademark contains or consists of, a sign that, after the date of registration of trademark, becomes generally accepted within the relevant trade as the sign that describes or is the name of an article, substance or service. (2) For the purposes of subsection (1), if the trademark consist s of the sign, the registered proprietor — (a) does not have any exclusive rights to use, or authorize other persons to use, the trademark in relation to— (i) the article or substance or other goods of the same description; or (ii) the service or other services of the same description, and (b) is taken to have ceased to have those exclusive rights from and including the day determined by the Court under subsection (4). (3) For the purposes of subsection (1), if the trademark contains the sign, the registered proprietor — 

Trademarks 55 (a) does not have any exclusive rights to use, or authorize other persons to use, the sign in relation to— (i) the article or substance or other goods of the same description; or (ii) the service or other services of the same description; and (b) is taken to have ceased to have those exclusive rights from the day determined by the Court under subsection (4). (4) For the purposes of subsections (2) and (3), the Court may determine the day on which a sign first became generally accepted within the relevant trade as the sign that describes or is the name of the article, substance or service. Trademark relating to article, etc., formerly manufactured under patent 51. (1) This section applies if— (a) a registered trademark contains or consists of, a sign that describes or is the name of— (i) an article or substance that was formerly exploited under a patent; or (ii) a service that was formerly provided as a patented process; (b) it is at least two years since the patent has expired or ceased; and (c) the sign is the only commonly known way to describ e or identify the article, substance or service. (2) If the trademark contains or consists of the sign in subsection (1), the registered proprietor — (a) does not have any exclusive right to use, or authorize other persons to use the trademark or the sign in relation to— 

56 Laws of Malaysia ACT 815 (i) the article or substance or other goods of the same description; or (ii) the service or other services of the same description; and (b) is taken to have ceased to have those exclusive rights from the end of the period of two years after the patent expired or ceased. Registration prima facie evidence 52. In all legal proceedings relating to a registered trademark — (a) the Register shall be prima facie evidence of anything contained in the Register; (b) the registration of the prescribed particulars of any registrable transaction under section 65 shall be prima facie evidence of the transaction; and (c) the registration of a person as the registered proprietor of the trademark shall be prima facie evidence of— (i) the validity of the original registration of trademark; and (ii) any subsequent assignments and transmissions. Registration conclusive 53. In all legal proceedings relating to a trademark in the Register, the original registration of the trademark shall, after the expiration of five years from the date of registrati on be taken to be valid in all respects unless it is shown that— (a) the original registration was obtained by fraud; (b) the trademark offends paragraph 23(5) (a), (c), (d) or (e); or 

Trademarks 57 (c) the trademark was, at the commencement of the proceedings, devoid of distincti veness of the goods or services of the registered proprietor. Chapter 2 Infringement of trademarks Acts amounting to infringement of registered trademark 54. (1) A person infringes a registered trademark if he uses a sign which is identical with the trademark in relation to goods or services which are identical with those for which it is registered, in the course of trade, without the consent of the registered proprietor. ( 2 ) A person infringes a registered trademark if, without the consent of the proprietor of the trademark, he uses in the course of trade a sign— (a) that is identical with the trademark and is used in relation to goods or services similar to those for which the trademark is registered; or (b) that is similar to the trademark and is used in relation to goods or services identical with or similar to those for which the trademark is registered, resulting in the likelihood of confusion on the part of the public. ( 3 ) For the purposes of this section, a person uses a sign if he— (a) applies it to goods or their packaging; (b) offers or exposes goods for sale under the sign; (c) puts goods on the market under the sign; (d) stocks goods under the sign for the purpose of offering or exposing them for sale or of putting them on the market; 

58 Laws of Malaysia ACT 815 (e) offers or supplies services under the sign; (f) imports or exports goods under the sign; (g) uses the sign on an invoice, catalogue, business letter, business paper, price list or other commercial document, including any such document in any medium; or (h) uses the sign in advertising. ( 4 ) A person who— (a) applies a registered trademark to any material used or intended to be used for labelling or packaging goods; or (b) uses a sign in advertising or on any document described in paragraph (3)(g), shall be treated as a party who uses the material which infringes the registered trademark if when he applied the trademark, he knew or had reason to believe that the application of the trademark was not duly authorized by the registered proprietor of the trademark or a licensee. Acts not amounting to infringement 55. (1) Notwithstanding section 54, a person does not infringe a registered trademark when— (a) he uses in good faith— (i) his name or the name of his place of business; or (ii) the name of his predecessor in business or the name of his predecessor’s place of busine ss; (b) he uses in good faith a sign to indicate — (i) the kind, quality, quantity, intended purposes, value, geographical origin or other characteristics of goods or services; or (ii) the time of production of goods or the rendering of 

Trademarks 59 services; or (c) he uses the trademark to indicate the intended purpose of goods which includes accessories or spare parts or service and such use is in accordance with honest practices in industrial or commercial matters. (2) Notwithstanding section 54, a person does not infringe a register ed trademark by using an unregistered trademark that is identical with or similar to the registered trademark in relation to goods or services identical with or similar to those for which the trademark is registered if he has, or he and his predecessor in business have, continuously used in the course of trade the unregistered trademark in relation to those goods or services from a time before — (a) the date of registration of the registered trademark; or (b) the date the registered proprietor, or a predecessor in business, or a person who was a registered user under the repealed Act, first used the trademark, whichever is the earlier. (3) Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, a person who uses a registered trademark does not infringe the trademark if such use— (a) is for a non-commercial purpose; (b) is for the purpose of news reporting or news commentary; (c) has at any time expressly or impliedly been consented to by the registered proprietor or licensee; or (d) of a trademark, which is one of two or more registe red trademarks which are substantially identical, in the exercise of the right to the use of that trademark given by registration as provided by this Act. (4) Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, a registered trademark is not infringed by the use of another registered 

60 Laws of Malaysia ACT 815 trademark in relation to goods or services for which the latter is registered. Action for infringement 56. (1) The registered proprietor shall have the right to institute Court proceedings against any person who has infringed or is infringing the registered trademark. (2) The registered proprietor shall have the same right of action in subsection (1) against any person who has performed acts which will make it likely that an infringement will occur. (3) In an action for an infringement, the Co urt may grant relief including the following: (a) an injunction subject to such conditions as the Court thinks fit which includes to prevent goods that involve the infringement from entering into the channels of commerce; (b) damages; (c) an account of profits; or (d) in any case to which subsection (7) applies, the award of such additional damages as it considers appropriate in the circumstances by the Court. (4) Notwithstanding paragraph (3) (a), upon the application of the plaintiff for an interim injunction, when the Court is satisfied that the infringement involves the use of a counterfeit trademark in relation to goods or services, the Court may order — (a) the seizure or taking into custody of suspected infringing goods, materials or articles relevant to the infringemen t; and (b) the supply of documentary evidence relevant to the infringement. (5) When the Court awards any damages under paragraph (3) (b), 

Trademarks 61 the Court may also make an order under paragraph (3)(c) for an account of profits attributable to the infringement that have not been taken into account in computing the damages. (6) Except as provided for in subsection (5), the relief referred to in paragraphs (3)(b) and (c) are mutually exclusive. (7) In any action for infringement of a registered trademark where the infringement i nvolves the use of a counterfeit trademark in relation to goods or services, the plaintiff shall be entitled, at his election, to— (a) damages and an account of profits attributable to the infringement that have not been taken into account in computing the damages; (b) an account of profits; or (c) additional damages as it considers appropriate in the circumstances. (8) Pursuant to paragraph (7) (c), the Court shall have regard to— (a) the flagrancy of the infringement of the registered trademark; (b) any benefit shown to have accrued to the defendant by reason of the infringement; (c) the need to punish the defendant for such act of infringement; and (d) all other relevant matters. (9) Notwithstanding the claim for priority made under section 26, 27 or 28, nothing in this section sha ll entitle the registered proprietor to recover any relief under subsection (3) for infringements or any happening prior to the date on which the application for protection of the trademark is made and become registered in Malaysia. 

62 Laws of Malaysia ACT 815 Circumstances in which action may not be instituted 57. An action for infringement may not be instituted in respect of an act that was done after the registration of trademark has expired or has been deemed removed and before it was renewed or restored under section 39. Order for erasure, etc., of offending sign 58. (1) Subject to subsection (3), where a person is found to have infringed a registered trademark, the Court may make an order requiring him— (a) to cause the offending sign to be erased, removed or obliterated from any infringing goods, material or articles in his possession, custody or control; or (b) if it is not reasonably practicable for the offending sign to be erased, removed or obliterated, to secure the destruction of the infringing goods, material or articles in quest ion. (2) If an order under subsection (1) is not complied with or it appears to the Court that it is likely that such an order would not be complied with, the Court may order that the infringing goods, material or articles be delivered up to such person as the Court may direct for the erasure, removal or obliteration of the sign, or otherwise for the destruction of the goods, material or articles. (3) Where a person who is found to have infringed a registered trademark has in his possession, custody or control any counterfeit goods, the Court shall order that the counterfeit goods be delivered up to such person as the Court may direct for destruction if— ( a ) the plaintiff applies to the Court for such an order; and ( b ) the Court is of the view that there are no exceptio nal circumstances which would justify the refusal of such an order. 

Trademarks 63 Order for delivery up of infringing goods, material or articles 59. (1) The Court may, in addition to any relief granted under sections 56 and 58 in any action for an infringement of a registered trademark, order any infringing goods, material or articles in the possession of the defendant or before the Court to be delivered up to the plaintiff. (2) Where the Court makes an order under subsection (1), it shall also make an order under section 60 unless it determines that there are grounds for not making such an order. (3) A person to whom any infringing goods, material or articles are delivered up pursuant to an order under subsection (1) shall, if an order under section 60 is not made at the time of the making of the order under subsection (1), retain them pending the decision of the application under section 60. Order for disposal of infringing goods, material or articles 60. (1) Where infringing goods, material or articles have been delivered up pursuant to an order under section 59, an application may be made to the Court — (a) for an order that they be destroyed or forfeited to such person as the Court may think fit; or (b) for a decision that no order under paragraph (a) shall be made. (2) In considering what order, if any, should be made, the Court shall have regard to— (a) whether other remedies available in an action for infringement of the registered trademark would be adequate to compensate the plaintiff and protect his interest; and (b) the need to ensure that no infringing goods, material or articles are disposed of in a manner that would adversely affect the plaintiff. (3) Notwithstanding subsection (2), where the infringing goods 

64 Laws of Malaysia ACT 815 are counterfeit goods, the Court shall order that the goods be destroyed if— (a) the plaintiff applies to the Court for such an order; and (b) the Court is of the view that there are no exceptional circumstances which would justify the refusal of such an order. (4) The Court shall issue directions as to the service of notice on persons hav ing an interest in the infringing goods, material or articles. (5) Any person having an interest in the infringing goods, material or articles shall be entitled — (a) to appear in proceedings of an application for an order under this section, whether or not th at person is served with notice; and (b) to appeal against any order made, whether or not that person appears in the proceedings. (6) An order made under this section shall not take effect until the end of the period within which a notice of appeal may be given or, if before the end of that period notice of appeal is duly given, until the final determination or discontinuance of the proceedings on the appeal. (7) Subject to subsection (3), where there is more than one person interested in the infringing goods, mater ial or articles, the Court may direct that the infringing goods, material or articles be sold, or otherwise dealt with, and the proceeds divided, and shall make any other order as it thinks fit. (8) If the Court decides that no order should be made under this section, the person in whose possession, custody or control of the infringing goods, material or articles were before being delivered up, is entitled to their return. 

Trademarks 65 Remedy for groundless threats of infringement proceedings 61. (1) Where a person threaten s another with proceedings for infringement of a registered trademark other than— (a) the application of the trademark to goods or to material used or intended to be used for labelling or packaging goods; (b) the importation of goods to which, or to the packagi ng of which, the trademark has been applied; or (c) the supply of services under the trademark, any aggrieved person may bring proceedings for relief under this section. (2) The relief which may be applied for shall be any of the following: (a) a declaration that the threats are unjustifiable; (b) an injunction against the continuance of the threats; or (c) damages in respect of any loss he has sustained by the threats. (3) The plaintiff shall be entitled to the relief in subsection (2) unless the defendant shows that the a cts in respect of which proceedings were threatened constitute or if done would constitute an infringement of the registered trademark concerned. (4) If the defendant shows that the acts in respect of which proceedings were threatened constitute or if done wo uld constitute an infringement of the registered trademark concerned, the plaintiff shall nevertheless be entitled to relief if he shows that the registration of trademark is invalid or liable to be revoked in a relevant respect. (5) The mere notification that a trademark is registered, or that an application for registration has been made, shall not constitute a threat of proceedings for the purposes of this section. (6) Nothing in this section shall render an advocate and solicitor 

66 Laws of Malaysia ACT 815 liable to an action under this section in respect of an act done by him in his professional capacity on behalf of a client. PART IX TRADEMARKS AS OBJECT OF PROPERTY Nature of registered trademark as property 62. A registered trademark shall be a personal or moveable property and may be the subject of a security interest in the same way as other personal or moveable property. Co-proprietorship of registered trademark 63. (1) Where a registered trademark is granted to two or more persons jointly, each of them shall be entitled, subject to any agreement to the contrary, to an equal undivided share in the registered trademark. (2) This section applies where two or more persons are co-proprietors of a registered trademark under subsection (1). (3) Subject to subsection (4) or any agreement to the contrary, each co-proprietor shall be entitled, by himself or his agents, to do for his own benefit and without the consent of or the need to account to the other, any act which would otherwise amount to an infringement of the registered trademark. (4) One co-proprietor shall not without the consent of the other— (a) grant a licence to use the registered trademark; or (b) assign or charge his share in the registered trademark. (5) Infringement proceedings may be brought by any co-proprietor, but he may not, withou t leave of the Court, proceed with the action unless the other, or each of the others, is either joined as a plaintiff or added as a defendant. (6) A co-proprietor who is thus added as a defendant shall not be made liable for any costs in the action unless he takes part in the 

Trademarks 67 proceedings. (7) Nothing in this subsection affects the granting of interlocutory relief on the application of a single co-proprietor. (8) Nothing in this section affects the mutual rights and obligations of trustees or personal representative s, or their rights and obligations as such. Assignment, etc., of registered trademark 64. (1) A registered trademark shall be transmissible by assignment or transmission in the same way as other personal or moveable property, and shall be so transmissible either in connection with the goodwill of a business or independently. (2) An assignment or other transmission of a registered trademark may be partial which is limited so as to apply in relation to some but not all of the goods or services for which the trademark is registered. (3) An assignment of a registered trademark, or an assent relating to a registered trademark, shall not be effective unless it is in writing and is signed by or on behalf of the assignor and assignee, or a personal representative, as the case may be. (4) Subsections (1), (2) and (3) shall apply to an assignment by way of security as in relation to any other assignment. (5) A registered trademark may be the subject of a charge in the same manner as other personal or moveable property. (6) Nothing in this Act shall be construed as affecting the assignment or other transmission of an unregistered trademark as part of the goodwill of a business. Registration of transaction affecting registered trademark 65. (1) The particulars of a registrable transactio n as determined by the Registrar shall be entered in the Register upon the approval by the Registrar on application being made in the form as 

68 Laws of Malaysia ACT 815 determined by the Registrar together with the payment of the prescribed fee by— (a) a person claiming to be entitled to an interest in or under a registered trademark by virtue of the registrable transaction; or (b) any other person claiming to be affected by such a transaction. (2) Until an application has been made under subsection (1) and approved by the Registrar, the transaction shall be ineffective against a person acquiring a conflicting interest in or under the registered trademark in ignorance of the transaction. (3) A person who becomes a registered proprietor by virtue of any registrable transaction shall not be entitled to damages or an account of profits in respect of any infringement of the registered trademark occurring after the date of the transaction and before the date of the application for the registration made under subsection (1). (4) Subsections (2) and (3) shal l not apply to any registrable transaction relating to a licence under a registered trademark or any right in or under the licence. (5) The Registrar may amend or remove any particulars relating to a security interest on the application of the registered proprietor and with the consent of the person entitled to the benefit of that interest in the form as determined by the Registrar together with the payment of the prescribed fee. Trust and equities 66. (1) Notice of any implied or constructive trust shall not be entered in the Register. ( 2 ) Notwithstanding that a notice of an express trust or of the beneficiary of an express trust may be entered in the Register — (a) the Registrar shall not be affected by such notice in the Register; and 

Trademarks 69 (b) for the avoidance of doubt, a failure to enter such notice in the Register shall not affect any rights or duties under the trust. ( 3 ) Subject to the provisions of this Act, equities in respect of a registered trademark may be enforced in like manner as in respect of other personal or movable property. Application for registration of trademark as an object of property 67. (1) Sections 62 to 66 shall apply in relation to an application for registration of trademark as they apply in relation to a registered trademark. (2) For the purposes of subsection (1), the reference in subsection 63(1) to the granting of a registration shall be construed as a reference to the making of an application for the registration of trademark. (3) In section 65 as it applies in relation to a transaction affecting an application for the registration of trademark, the references to the entry of particulars in the Register, and to the making of an application to register particulars, shall be construed as references to the giving of notice to the Registrar of those partic ulars. PART X LICENSING Interpretation 68. In this Part— (a) “exclusive licence” means a licence, whether general or limited, authorizing the licensee to the exclusion of all other persons including the person granting the licence, to use a registered tradem ark in the manner authorized by the licence, and the expression “exclusive licensee” shall be construed accordingly; and (b) “licence” includes a sub-licence and “licensee” shall be construed accordingly and references to a licence or 

70 Laws of Malaysia ACT 815 licensee include refere nces to a sub -licence or sub- licensee. Licensing of registered trademark 69. (1) A licence to use a registered trademark may be general or limited. (2) A limited licence may apply — (a) in relation to some but not all of the goods or services for which the tradema rk is registered; or (b) in relation to use of the trademark in a particular manner or a particular locality. (3) A licence shall not be effective unless it is in writing and is signed by or on behalf of the grantor. (4) A licence to use a registered trademark shall be binding on every successor in title to the grantor’s interest — (a) except any person who, in good faith and without any notice, actual or constructive, of the licence, has given valuable consideration for the interest in the registered trademark; or (b) unless the licence provides otherwise, and any reference to doing anything with, or without, the consent of a registered proprietor of trademark shall be construed accordingly. (5) Every person shall be deemed to have notice of a licence if the particulars as determined by the Registrar of the grant of the licence are entered in the Register under subsection 65(1). (6) Where the licence so provides, a sub-licence may be granted by the licensee. (7) This section shall apply, with the necessary modifications, to an exclusive licence. 

Trademarks 71 Rights of licensees in case of infringement 70. (1) This section has effect with respect to the rights of a licensee in relation to infringement of a registered trademark except for an exclusive licensee under subsections 71(1) and (2), the licensee has the right to bring infringement proceeding in his own name. ( 2 ) A licensee shall be entitled, unless his licence or any license through which his interest is derived, provides otherwise, to call on the registered proprietor of the trademark to take infringement proceedings in respect of any matter which affects his interests. ( 3 ) For the purposes of subsection (2), if the registered proprietor refuses or does not take infringement proceedings within two months after being called upon, the licensee may bring the proceedings in his own name as if he were the registered proprietor. ( 4 ) Where infringement proceedings are brought by a licensee by virtue of this section, the licensee may not, without leave of the Court, proceed with the action unless the registered proprietor is either joined as a plaintiff or added as a defendant. ( 5 ) Subsection (4) does not affect the granting of interlocutory relief on an application by a licensee alone. ( 6 ) A registered proprietor who is added as a defendant under subsection (4) shall not be liable for any costs in the action unless he takes part in the proceedings. ( 7 ) In infringement proceedings brought by the registered proprietor, any loss suffered or likely to be suffered by a licensee shall be taken into account and the Court may give such directions as it thinks fit as to the extent to which the plaintiff is to hold the proceeds of any pecuniary remedy on behalf of a licensee. ( 8 ) The provisions of this section apply in relation to an exclusive licensee if or to the extent that he has, under subsections 71(1) and (2), the rights and remedies of an assignee as if he were the registered proprietor of the trademark. 

72 Laws of Malaysia ACT 815 Exclusive licensee having rights and remedies of assignee 71. (1) An exclusive licence may provide that the licensee sha ll have, to such extent as may be provided by the licence, the same rights and remedies in respect of matters occurring after the grant of the licence as if the licence had been an assignment. (2) Where or to the extent of the provision referred to in subsect ion (1), the licensee shall be entitled, subject to the provisions of the licence and this section, to bring infringement proceedings, against any person other than the registered proprietor, in his own name. (3) Any such rights and remedies of an exclusive l icensee are concurrent with those of the registered proprietor and references to the registered proprietor relating to infringement shall be construed accordingly. (4) In an action brought by an exclusive licensee under this section, a defendant may avail him self of any defence which would have been available to him as if the action had been brought by the registered proprietor of the trademark. (5) Where proceedings for infringement of a registered trademark brought by the registered proprietor or an exclusive l icensee relate wholly or partly to an infringement in respect of which they have concurrent rights of action, the registered proprietor or the exclusive licensee may not, without leave of the Court, proceed with the action unless the other is either join ed as a plaintiff or added as a defendant. (6) Subsection (5) does not affect the granting of interlocutory relief on an application by a registered proprietor of the trademark or exclusive licensee alone. (7) A person who is added as a defendant under subsectio n (4) shall not be liable for any costs in the action unless he takes part in the proceedings. (8) Where an action for infringement of a registered trademark brought relates wholly or partly to an infringement in respect of which the registered proprietor and an exclusive licensee have or 

Trademarks 73 had concurrent rights of action — (a) the Court shall in assessing damages take into account — (i) the terms of the licence; and (ii) any pecuniary remedy already awarded or available to either of them in respect of the infringement; (b) no account of profits shall be directed if an award of damages has been made, or an account of profits has been directed, in favour of the other of them in respect of the infringement; and (c) the Court shall, if an account of profits is directed, apportion the profits between them as the Court considers just, subject to any agreement between them. (9) Subsection (8) shall apply whether or not the registered proprietor and the exclusive licensee are both parties to the action, and if they are not both parties, the Court may give such directions as it thinks fit as to the extent to which the party to the proceedings is to hold the proceeds of any pecuniary remedy on behalf of the other. (10) Subsections (5) to (8) have effect subject to any agreement to the contrary bet ween the exclusive licensee and the registered proprietor of the trademark. PART XI COLLECTIVE MARKS AND CERTIFICATION MARKS Collective marks 72. (1) A collective mark shall be a sign distinguishing the goods or services of members of the association which is the proprietor of the collective mark from those of other undertakings. 

74 Laws of Malaysia ACT 815 (2) The provisions of this Act apply to collective marks subject to the provisions of the First Schedule. Certification marks 73. (1) A certification mark shall be a sign indicati ng that the goods or services in connection with which it shall be used are certified by the proprietor of the mark in respect of origin, material, mode of manufacture of goods or performance of services, quality, accuracy or other characteristics. (2) The provisions of this Act apply to certification marks subject to the provisions of the Second Schedule. PART XII INTERNATIONAL MATTERS Chapter 1 Madrid Protocol Interpretation 74. For the purposes of this Part, “Madrid Protocol” means the Protocol relat ing to the Madrid Agreement concerning the International Registration of Marks, adopted at Madrid on 27 June 1989. Regulations relating to Madrid Protocol 75. (1) The Minister may make regulations to give effect to the provisions of the Madrid Protocol in Malaysia. (2) Without prejudice to the generality of subsection (1), regulations may provide for all or any of the following purposes: (a) all matters relating to applications for international registration of trademarks including where the basic 

Trademarks 75 Malaysia application or registration fails or ceases to be in force and its renewal; (b) all matters relating to requests to extend to Malaysia the protection resulting from international registration of trademark and including the effects of such requests; (c) all matters relating to the protection to protected international registration designating Malaysia including the cessation of such protection; (d) all matters relating to the transformation of an application for an international registration, or an international registrati on, into a national application for registration including the effects of such transformation; (e) all matters relating to the cancellation of an international registration including the effects of such cancellation; (f) all matters relating to a protected inter national registration designating Malaysia including the application of section 61 and Parts XIII and XV; (g) the payment of fees and amounts prescribed in respect of applications for international registrations, extensions of protection and renewals; and (h) all other matters as are necessary or expedient to be prescribed for giving effect to this Act. Chapter 2 Conventions and international arrangements Protection of well-known trademarks 76. (1) A well-known trademark shall be entitled to protection under this section — (a) whether or not the trademark has been registered in 

76 Laws of Malaysia ACT 815 Malaysia, or an application for the registration of trademark has been made to the Registrar; and (b) whether or not the proprietor of the trademark carries on business, or has any goodwill, in Malaysia. (2) Subject to subsections (5) and (6), the proprietor of a well-known trademark shall be entitled to restrain by injunction the use in Malaysia, in the course of trade and without the proprietor’s consent, of any trademark which, or an essential part of which, is identical with or similar to the proprietor’s trademark— (a) in relation to identical or similar goods or services, where the use is likely to cause confusion; or (b) in relation to any goods or services, where the use of the trademark would indicate a connection between those goods or services and the proprietor, and is likely to damage the interests of the proprietor. (3) A proprietor of a well-known trademark may apply to the Court for a declaration of invalidation of a registered trademark on the grounds that the registered trademark is identical with or similar to a well-known trademark in Malaysia and the registered trademark is registered for any goods or services which are not identical or not similar to those in respect of the well-known trademark — (a) if the use of the registered trademark in relation to those goods or services would indicate a connection between those goods or services and the proprietor of the well- known trademark; (b) there exists a likelihood of confusion on the part of the public because of such use; and (c) the interests of the proprietor of the well-known trademark are likely to be damaged by such use. (4) A proprietor of a well-known trademark may apply to the Court for a declaration of invalidation of a registered trademark on 

Trademarks 77 the grounds of fraud in the registration or that the registration was obtained by misrepresentation. (5) The proprietor of a well-known trademark shall not be entitled to the right referred to in subsection (2) if the use of the trademark began before the proprietor’s trademark became well- known in Malaysia unless the trademark has been used in bad faith. (6) The proprietor of a well-known trademark shall cease to be entitled to the right referred to in subsection (2) if the proprietor of the well -known trademark has acquiesced for a continuous period of five years in the use of the trademark in Malaysia, being aware of that use, unless the trademark has been used in bad faith. (7) In deciding whether the trademark, has been used in bad faith, it shall be relevant to the Court to consider whether the person who used the trademark had, at the time he began to use the trademark, knowledge of, or reason to know of, the proprietor’s well-known trademark. (8) Nothing in subsection (2) shall affect the continuation of any use referred to that subsection in good faith of a trademark that was begun before 1 December 1997 (when the relevant provisions of the TRIPS Agreement entered into force in relation to the Malaysia). (9) Nothing in subsection (3) shall affect the continuation of any bona fide use of a trademark begun before the commencement of this Act. (10) For the purposes of this section, “use”, in relation to a trademark, means use within the meaning of subsection 54(3). Permitted use of well-known trademarks 77. (1) Notwithstanding section 76, the proprietor of a well-known trademark shall not be entitled to restrain by injunction the use in Malaysia, in accordance with honest practices in industrial or commercial matters, by any person of— (a) the name of— 

78 Laws of Malaysia ACT 815 (i) the person himself ; (ii) the person’s place of business; (iii) the person’s predecessor in business; or (iv) the place of business of the person’s predecessor in business; (b) any sign to indicate — (i) the kind, quality, quantity, intended purpose, value, geographical origin or other characte ristic of goods or services; or (ii) the time of production of goods or of the rendering of services; or (c) the trademark to indicate the intended purpose of goods which includes accessories or spare parts or services. (2) Notwithstanding section 76, the proprietor of a well-known trademark shall not be entitled to restrain by injunction the use in Malaysia of— (a) any registered trademark in relation to goods or services for which the latter is registered; or (b) the trademark if such use— (i) is for a non-commercial purpose; (ii) is for the purpose of news reporting or news commentary; or (iii) has at any time expressly or impliedly been consented to by the proprietor of the well-known trademark. National emblems, etc., of Convention countries under Article 6ter of Paris Convention 78. (1) A trademark which consists of or contains the flag of a 

Trademarks 79 Convention country shall not be registered without the authorization of the competent authorities of that country, unless it appears to the Registrar that the use of the flag in the manner proposed is permitted without such authorization. (2) A trademark which consists of or contains the armorial bearings or any other state emblem of a Convention country which is protected under the Paris Convention or the TRIPS Agreement shall not be registered without the authorization of the competent authorities of that country. (3) A trademark which consists of or contains an official sign or hallmark adopted by a Convention country and indicating control and warranty shall not, where the sign or hallmark is protected under the Paris Convention or the TRIPS Agreement, be registered of the same, or a similar kind, as those in relation to which it indicates control and warranty, without the authorization of the competent authorities of the country concerned. (4) References to national flags and other state emblems, and official signs or hallmarks under this section, apply equally to anything which from a heraldic point of view imitates any such flag or other emblem, or sign or hallmark. (5) Nothing in this section prevents the registration of trademark on the application of a national of a country who is authorized to make use of a state emblem, or official sign or hallmark, of that country, notwithstanding that it is similar to that of another country. (6) Where by virtue of this section, the authorization of the competent authorities of a Convention country is or would be required for the registration of trademark, those authorities are entitled to restrain by injunction any use of the trademark in Malaysia without their authorization. Emblems, etc., of certain international intergovernmental organization under Article 6ter of Paris Convention 79. (1) A trademark which consists of or contains any armorial bearing, flag, emblem, abbreviation or name of international intergover nmental organizations of which one or more Convention countries are members and which is protected under the Paris 

80 Laws of Malaysia ACT 815 Convention or the TRIPS Agreement shall not be registered without the authorization of the international intergovernmental organization conce rned, unless it appears to the Registrar that the use of the armorial bearing, flag, emblem, abbreviation or name in the manner proposed — (a) would indicate to the public that a connection exists between the organization and the trademark; or (b) is not likely to mislead the public as to the existence of a connection between the user and the organization. (2) References to armorial bearing, flag, emblems, abbreviation or name of an international intergovernmental organization under this section, apply equally to anything which from a heraldic point of view imitates any such emblem. (3) Where under this section, the authorization of an international intergovernmental organization shall or would be required for the registration of trademark, that organization shall be entitled to restrain by injunction any use of the trademark in Malaysia without its authorization. (4) Nothing in this section affects the rights of a person whose use in good faith of the trademark in question began before 1 January 1989 (when the relevant provisions of the Paris Convention entered into force in relation to the Malaysia). Notification under Article 6ter of the Paris Convention 80. (1) For the purposes of section 78, state emblems of a Convention country, other than the national flag, and official signs or hallmarks, shall be regarded as protected under the Paris Convention or the TRIPS Agreement only if, or to the extent that — (a) the country in question has notified Malaysia in accordance with Article 6ter(3) of the Paris Convention, or under that Article as applied by the TRIPS Agreement, that it desires to protect that emblem, sign or hallmark; (b) the notification remains in force; and 

Trademarks 81 (c) Malaysia has not objected to it in accordance with Article 6ter(4) of the Paris Convention or under that Article as applied by the TRIPS Agreement, or any such objection has been withdrawn. (2) For the purposes of section 79, the armorial bearing, flag, emblems, abbreviations and names of an international intergovernmental organization shall be regarded as protecte d under the Paris Convention or under that Article as applied by the TRIPS Agreement only if, or to the extent that— (a) the organization in question has notified Malaysia in accordance with Article 6ter(3) of the Paris Convention or under that Article as applied by the TRIPS Agreement, that it desires to protect that armorial bearing, flag, emblem, abbreviation or name; (b) the notification remains in force; and (c) Malaysia has not objected to it in accordance with Article 6ter(4) of the Paris Convention or under that Article as applied by the TRIPS Agreement, or any such objection has been withdrawn. (3) Notification under Article 6ter(3) of the Paris Convention or under that Article as applied by the TRIPS Agreement, shall have effect only in relation to applicatio ns for registration of trademarks under subsection 17(2) made more than two months after the receipt of the notification. (4) The Registrar shall keep and make available for public inspection, at all reasonable hours and free of charge, a list of— (a) the state emblems and official signs or hallmarks; and (b) the armorial bearing, flag, emblems, abbreviations and names of international intergovernmental organizations, which are for the time being protected under the Paris Convention or under that Article as applied by the TRIPS Agreement by notification made under Article 6ter(3) of the Paris Convention or under that Article as applied by the TRIPS Agreement. 

82 Laws of Malaysia ACT 815 PART XIII BORDER MEASURES Interpretation 81. In this Part— (a) “authorized officer” means — (i) a proper officer of customs as defined under the Customs Act 1967 [Act 235]; or (ii) any public officer, or any person in the employment of the Corporation, appointed by the Minister to exercise the powers and perform the duties conferred and imposed on an authorized officer by this Part; (b) “goods in transit” means goods imported, whether or not landed or transshipped within Malaysia, which are to be carried to another country either by the same or another conveyance; (c) “import” means to bring or cause to be brought into Malaysia by whatever means; (d) “retention period”, in relation to seized goods, means — (i) the period specified in a notice given under section 85 in respect of the goods; or (ii) if the period has been extended under section 85, that period so extended; (e) “security” means a ny sum of money in cash or other monetary instrument as determined by the Registrar; and (f) “seized goods” means goods seized under section 82. 

Trademarks 83 Restriction on importation of infringing goods 82. (1) Any person may file an application to the Registrar stating — (a) that he is the registered proprietor, or the licensee having the power to file such application; (b) that, at a time and place specified in the application, goods which, in relation to the registered trademark, are infringing goods are expected to be imported for the purpose of trade; and (c) that he objects to such importation. (2) An application under subsection (1) shall be supported by the documents and information as determined by the Registrar relating to the goods as to enable them to be identified by the authorized officer, and together with the payment of the prescribed fee. (3) Upon receipt of the application under subsection (1), the Registrar shall determine the application, and the Registrar shall within a reasonable period inform the applicant whether the application has been approved. (4) In determining the reasonable period under subsection (3), the Registrar shall take into consideration all relevant circumstances of the case. (5) An approval under subsection (3) shall remain in force until the end of the period of sixty days commencing on the day on which the approval was given, unless it is withdrawn before the end of that period by the applicant by giving a notice in writing to the Registrar. (6) Where an approval has been given under this section and has not lapsed or been withdrawn, the importation of any infringing goods into Malaysia for the duration of the period specified in the approval shall be prohibited. (7) Upon giving his approval under subsection (3) the Registrar shall immediately take the necessary measures to notify the authorized officer. 

84 Laws of Malaysia ACT 815 (8) Where an authorized officer has been notified by the Registrar under subsection (7), the authorized officer shall take the necessary action to prohibit any person from importing the infringing goods identi fied in the notice, not being goods in transit, and shall seize and detain the identified goods. Security 83. The Registrar shall, upon giving his approval under section 82, require the applicant to deposit with the Registrar a security which in the opinion of the Registrar is sufficient to— (a) reimburse the Registrar for any liability or expense it is likely to incur as a result of the seizure of the infringing goods; (b) prevent abuse and to protect the importer; or (c) pay such compensation as may be ordered by the Court under this Part. Secure storage of seized goods 84. (1) Seized goods shall be taken to such secure place as the Registrar may direct or as the authorized officer deems fit. (2) If it is stored on the direction of the authorized officer, the authori zed officer shall inform the Registrar of the whereabouts of the seized goods. Notice 85. (1) As soon as is reasonably practicable after the infringing goods are seized under section 82, the authorized officer shall give to the Registrar, importer and the applicant, either personally or by registered post, a written notice identifying the infringing goods, stating that they have been seized and the whereabout of the goods. (2) A notice under subsection (1) shall also state that the infringing goods will be released to the importer unless an action 

Trademarks 85 for infringement in respect of the goods is instituted by the applicant within a specified period from the date of the notice. (3) If at the time of the receipt of the notice an action for infringement has been instituted by the applicant, the applicant shall notify the Registrar of that fact in the form as determined by the Registrar. (4) The applicant may, by written notice given to the Registrar before the end of the period specified in the notice (the initial period), request that the period be extended. (5) Subject to subsection (6), the Registrar may extend the initial period upon a request made in accordance with subsection (4) where the Registrar is satisfied that it is reasonable that the request be granted. (6) A decision on a request made in accordance with subsection (4) shall be made within two working days after the request is made, but such decision cannot be made after the end of the initial period to which the request relates. Inspection, release, etc., of seized goods 86. (1) The Registrar may permit the applicant or importer to inspect the seized goods if the applicant or importer agrees to give the requisite undertakings. ( 2 ) The requisite undertakings under subsection (1) are undertakings in writing that the person gi ving the undertakings shall— (a) return the sample of the seized goods to the Registrar at a specified time that is satisfactory to the Registrar; and (b) take reasonable care to prevent damage to the sample. ( 3 ) If the applicant gives the requisite undertakings, the Registrar may permit the applicant to remove a sample of the seized goods from the custody of the Registrar for inspection by the applicant. ( 4 ) If the importer gives the requisite undertakings, the Registrar may permit the importer to remove a sample of the seized goods 

86 Laws of Malaysia ACT 815 from the custody of the Registrar for inspection by the importer. ( 5 ) If the Registrar permits inspection of the seized goods, or the removal of a sample of the seized goods, by the applicant in accordance with this section, the Registrar shall not be liable to the importer for any loss or damage suffered by the importer arising out of— (a) damage to any of the seized goods incurred during that inspection; or (b) anything done by the applicant or any other person to, or in relation to, a sample removed from the custody of the Registrar or any use made by the applicant or any other person of such a sample. Forfeiture of seized goods by consent 87. (1) Subject to subsection (2), the importer may, by written notice to the Registrar, consent to the seized goods being forfeited. (2) The notice shall be given before any action for infringement in relation to the seized goods is instituted. (3) If the importer gives such a notice, the seized goods are forfeited and shall be disposed of in any manner as determined by the Registrar. Compulsory release of seized goods to importer 88. (1) The Registrar shall release the seized goods to the importer on the expiration of the retention period for the goods if the applicant — (a) has not instituted an action for infringement in relation to the goods; and (b) has not given written notice to the Registrar stating that the action for infringement has been instituted. 

Trademarks 87 (2) If— (a) an action for infringement has been instituted in relation to the seized goods; and (b) at the end of a period of thirty days commencing on the day on which the action for infringement was instituted, there shall not be in force an order of the Court in which the action was instituted preventing the release of the goods, the Registrar shall release the goods to the importer. (3) If the applicant gives a written notice to the Registrar stating that he consents to the release of the seized goods, the Registrar shall release the goods to the importer. Compensation for failure to take action 89. (1) Where goods have been seized pursuant to a notice given under section 82 and the applicant does not take action for infringement within the retention period, a person aggrieved by such seizure may apply to the Court for an order of compensation against the applicant. (2) Where the Co urt is satisfied that the person aggrieved had suffered loss or damage as a result of the seizure of the goods, the Court may order the applicant to pay compensation in such amount as the Court thinks fit to the aggrieved person. Actions for infringeme nt of registered trademark 90. (1) If an action for infringement has been instituted by the applicant, the Court may in addition to any relief that may be granted — (a) order that the seized goods be released to the importer subject to such conditions, if any, as the Court thinks fit; (b) order that the seized goods be not released to the importer before the end of a specified period; or 

88 Laws of Malaysia ACT 815 (c) order that the seized goods be forfeited, depending on the circumstances of the case. ( 2) The Registrar or the authorized officer shall be entitled to be heard on the hearing of an action for infringement. ( 3) The Court may not make an order under paragraph (1)(a) if it is satisfied that the Registrar or any authority is required or permitted under any other law to retain control of the seized goods. ( 4) The Registrar shall comply with an order made under subsection (1). ( 5) The Court may order the applicant to pay compensation in such amount as the Court thinks fit to the defendant if— (a) the action is dismissed or discontinued, or if the Court decides that the relevant registered trademark was not infringed by the importation of the seized goods; and (b) the defendant to the action for infringement satisfies the Court that he has suffered loss or damage as a result of the seizure of the goods. Disposal of seized goods ordered to be forfeited 91. If the Court orders that seized goods are to be forfeited, the goods shall be disposed of in the manner as directed by the Court. Insufficient security 92. (1) If the reasonable expenses incurred by the Registrar in relation to any action taken by the Registrar under this Part, or taken in accordance with an order of the Court under this Part, exceed the amount of security deposited under section 83, the amount of the excess shall be a debt due to the Registra r. (2) The debt under subsection (1) shall be due by the applicant, or, if there are two or more applicants, by the applicants jointly and severally. 

Trademarks 89 Ex-officio action 93. (1) Based on prima facie evidence, any authorized officer may detain or suspend the release of goods bearing, without authorization, a trademark which is identical with the registered trademark and the goods are identical with the goods of a registered trademark, which are to be imported or destined for export. (2) Where such goods have been detained, the authorized officer — (a) shall inform the Registrar, the importer and the registered proprietor; and (b) may at any time seek from the registered proprietor any information that may assist him to exercise his powers. (3) Subject to section 88, an importer may lodge an appeal to the Director General under the Customs Act 1967 against the detention of goods or suspension of the release of goods under subsection (1). (4) The authorized officer shall only be exempted from liability if his actions under subsection (1) are done in good faith. (5) Destined for export referred to in subsection (1) means goods which are to be exported from Malaysia to another country through any mode of transportation. De Minimis Imports 94. (1) The provisions in this Part shall not apply to small quantities of goods of a non-commercial nature contained in travelers’ personal luggage or sent in small consignments. (2) Small quantities referred to in subsection (1) means not more than two goods. 

90 Laws of Malaysia ACT 815 PART XIV TRADEMARK AGENTS Recognition of registered trademark agents and circumstances in which a registered trademark agent shall be required 95. (1) Any act which is required or authorized by this Act to be done by or to a person in connection with the preliminary procedure, or application for registration of trademark, or any procedure relating to a registered trademark, may be done by or to a registered trademark agent duly authorized by that person in the manner as determined by the Registrar. ( 2 ) Where a person appearing before the Registr ar in a preliminary procedure or applying for registration of trademark or any procedure relating to a registered trademark, does not reside or carry on business principally in Malaysia, he shall appoint and authorize a registered trademark agent to act for him. ( 3 ) Upon being appointed and authorized by the person to act for him under subsection (2), the registered trademark agent shall— (a) continue to be the agent of the person; and (b) be answerable for all acts, matters and things that are required to be done by the person under this Act, unless he is terminated by the person or ceases to act for him in accordance with the prescribed manner. ( 4 ) Where a registered trademark agent acting for a person intends to cease to act on behalf of the said person — (a) the registered trademark agent shall file the notice of the intention to cease to act on the said person’s behalf with the Registrar in the manner as determined by the Registrar; (b) the registered trademark agent shall notify the person; and (c) upon complying with su bparagraphs (a) and (b), the agent shall cease to be the agent for the said person. 

Trademarks 91 Register of Trademark Agents 96. (1) The Registrar shall keep and maintain a register called the Register of Trademark Agents. (2) The Register of Trademark Agents shall contain the names, addresses and other prescribed matters of registered trademark agents who shall act on behalf of any person for the purposes of section 95. Registration of trademark agent 97. (1) The Registrar shall register a person as a registered trademark agent if he satisfies the prescribed requirements and enters his name in the Register of Trademark Agents. (2) For the purposes of this Part, the Registrar may— (a) cancel the registration of trademark agent on the grounds as may be prescribed; (b) allow volun tary cancellation of the registration of a trademark agent upon the application made by the registered trademark agent; (c) allow a change of name or address of service of the registered trademark agent upon the application made by the registered trademark agent; (d) remove the registration of a trademark agent upon the death of the registered trademark agent; and (e) refuse to recognize any person as a registered trademark agent subject to any circumstances as prescribed. (3) Any cancellation of the registration of a trademark agent shall result in the removal of the name of the registered trademark agent from the Register of Trademark Agents. (4) The removal of the registered trademark agent from the 

92 Laws of Malaysia ACT 815 Register of Trademark Agents and all the applications for registration or registrations of trademarks handled by the registered trademark agent shall be published by the Registrar in the manner as determined by the Registrar in the Intellectual Property Official Journal. (5) The Registrar shall register partnerships and bodies corporate as trademark agents if they satisfy the prescribed requirements and upon registration, they shall be bound by the requirements specified in subsections (2), (3) and (4). Privileged communications with registered trademark agent 98. (1) A communicat ion made between a registered trademark agent and the person appointing and authorizing the agent in matters relating to trademarks, and any record or document made for the purposes of such a communication, are privileged to the same extent as a communicat ion between a solicitor and his client. (2) A registered trademark agent has, in relation to documents and property of the person appointing and authorizing the agent in a matter relating to trademarks, the same right of lien that a solicitor has in relation to the documents and property of a client. PART XV OFFENCE Counterfeiting a trademark 99. (1) Any person who counterfeits a registered trademark by— (a) making a sign identical with or similar to a registered trademark with the intent to deceive; or (b) falsifying a genuine registered trademark, whether by alteration, addition, effacement, partial removal or otherwise, without the consent of the registered proprietor of the trademark 

Trademarks 93 commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding one million ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding five years or to both. (2) In a prosecution under this section, the burden of proving the consent of the registered proprietor of the trademark shall be upon the accused person. Falsely applying a registered trademark to goods or services 100. (1) For the purposes of this section and section 102, a person falsely applies a registered trademark to goods or services when— (a) he applies the trademark or a sign likely to be mistaken for that trademark to the goods or services without the consent of the registered proprietor; and (b) in the case of an application to goods, the goods are not the genuine goods of the registered proprietor or licensee of the trademark. (2) For the purposes of subsection (1 ), a trademark shall be deemed to be applied to goods or services if it is used in— (a) any sign or advertisement; or (b) any invoice, catalogue, business letter, business paper, price list or other commercial document, including any such document in any medium, and the goods are delivered, or services provided to a person pursuant to a request or order made by reference to the trademark as so used. (3) For the purposes of subsection (1)— (a) a sign shall be deemed to be applied to goods if— (i) it is applied to the goods themselves; or (ii) it is applied to any covering, label, reel or thing in or with which the goods are sold, offered or exposed for sale or had in possession for a purpose 

94 Laws of Malaysia ACT 815 of trade or manufacture; and (b) a sign shall be deemed to be applied to goods or services if it is used in a manner that is likely to lead persons to believe that it refers to, describes or designates the goods or services. (4) Any person who falsely — (a) applies a registered trademark to goods under subsection (1) commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable— (i) if the person is a body corporate, to a fine not exceeding fifteen thousand ringgit for each of the goods bearing the falsely applied registered trademark, and for a second or subsequent offence, to a fine not exceeding thirty thousand ringgit for each of the goods bearing the falsely applied registered trademark; or (ii) if the person is not a body corporate, to a fine not exceeding ten thousand ringgit for each of the goods bearing the falsely applied registered trademark or to impris onment for a term not exceeding three years or to both, and for a second or subsequent offence, to a fine not exceeding twenty thousand ringgit for each of the goods bearing the falsely applied registered trademark, or to imprisonment for a term not excee ding five years or to both; or (b) applies a registered trademark to services under subsection (1) commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable— (i) if the person is a body corporate, to a fine not exceeding one hundred thousand ringgit; or (ii) if the person is not a body corporate, to a fine not exceeding seventy thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding three years or to both. 

Trademarks 95 (5) In subsection (3)— (a) “covering” includes any stopper, glass, bottle, vessel, box, capsule, case, frame or wrapper; and (b) “label” includes any band or ticket. (6) In a prosecution under this section, the burden of proving the consent of the registered proprietor of the trademark shall be upon on the accused person. Making or possessing of article for committing offence 101. Any person who— (a) makes an article specifically designed or adapted for making copies of a registered trademark or a sign likely to be mistaken for that trademark; or (b) has in his possession, custody or control an article as in paragraph (a), knowing or having reason to believe that it has been, or is to be, used for, or in the course of, committing an offence against sections 99 and 100, commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding one million ringgit or to impriso nment for a term not exceeding five years or to both. Importing or selling, etc., goods with falsely applied trademark 102. (1) Any person who— (a) imports into Malaysia for the purpose of trade or manufacture; (b) sells or offers or exposes for sale; or (c) has in his possession, custody or control for the purpose of trade or manufacture, any goods to which a registered trademark is falsely applied under section 100, unless he proves that having taken all reasonable 

96 Laws of Malaysia ACT 815 precautions against committing an offence under th is section, he had, at the time of the commission of the alleged offence, no reason to suspect the genuineness of the trademark and on demand made by the Assistant Controller as defined in section 109, he gave all the information in his knowledge with respect to the persons from whom he obtained the goods, commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable — (i) if the person is a body corporate, to a fine not exceeding fifteen thousand ringgit for each of the goods with the falsely applied registered trademark, and for a second or subsequent offence, to a fine not exceeding thirty thousand ringgit for each of the goods with the falsely applied registered trademark; or (ii) if the person is not a body corporate, to a fine not exceeding ten thousand ringgit for each of the goods with the falsely applied registered trademark or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding three years or to both, and for a second or subsequent offence, to a fine not exceeding twenty thousand ringgit for each of the goods with the falsely applied registered trademark, or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding five years or to both. (2) For the purposes of paragraph (1) (c), a person having in his possession three or more of the goods to which a registered trademark is falsely applie d is deemed to have in possession the goods for the purpose of trade or manufacture. False entries to Trademarks Office or in Register 103. Any person who— (a) makes or causes to be made a false entry to the Trademarks Office or in the Register; (b) makes or causes to be made a false entry in any certified copy deposited in the Trademarks Office; 

Trademarks 97 (c) makes or causes to be made any thing false purporting to be a copy of an entry in the Register or to be filed with the Trademarks Office; or (d) produces or tenders or causes to be produced or tendered in evidence any thing referred to in paragraph (c), knowing or having reasons to believe that the entry or thing is false, commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding fifty thousand ringgit or to a term of imprisonment not exceeding five years or to both. Falsely representing trademark as registered 104. (1) Any person who— (a) falsely represents that a trademark is a registered trademark; or (b) makes a false representation as to the goods or services for which a trademark is registered, knowing or having reason to believe that the representation is false commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding ten thousand ringgit. (2) For the purposes of this section, the use in the course of trade in Malaysia in relation to a trademark of the word “registered” or any other word or symbol importing a reference expressly or impliedly to registration, shall be deemed to be a representation as to registration under this Act unless it is shown that the reference is to registration elsewhere than in Malaysia and that the trademark is in fact so registered for the goods or services in question. Offence relating to disobedience to summons or refusal to give evidence 105. (1) The Registrar may, for the purposes of this Act— (a) summon witnesses; (b) receive evidence on oath; and 

98 Laws of Malaysia ACT 815 (c) require the production of a document or article. (2) Any person who disobeys the summons or request under subsection (1) without any lawful excuse commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding two thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding three months or to both. Falsely representing trademark as a protected international registration designating Malaysia 106. (1) A person who— (a) falsely represents a trademark as a protected international registration designating Malaysia; or (b) makes a false representation as to the goods or services for which a protected international registration designating Malaysia confers protection in Malaysia, knowing or having reason to believe that the representation is false commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding ten thousand ringgit. Misuse of title “Trademarks Office” 107. Any person who uses on his place of business or any document issued by him or otherwise, the words “Trademarks Office” or any other words suggesting that his place of business is, or is officially connected with, the Trademarks Office commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding fifty thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding two years or to both. Unregistered persons practising, etc., as a registered trademark agent 108. Any person who carries on business, practices, acts, describes himself, holds himself out, or permits himself to be described or held out, as a trademark agent without being registered under this Act commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a 

Trademarks 99 fine not exceeding fifty thousand ringgit or two years impriso nment or both. PART XVI INVESTIGATION AND ENFORCEMENT Chapter 1 Investigation and complaints Interpretation 109. For the purposes of this Part— (a) “Controller”, “Deputy Controller” or “Assistant Controller” mean the Controller, Deputy Controller or Assistant Controller, of the Trade Descriptions appointed under section 3 of the Trade Descriptions Act 2011 [Act 730]; and (b) “premises” means any place, stationary or otherwise established or set up by any person, whether such place is with or without enclosure, and includes vehicles, aircrafts, ships and any other vessel. Power of Controller, Deputy Controllers or Assistant Controllers 110. (1) The Controller shall perform the duties imposed and exercise the powers conferred on him under this Part subject to the general direction and control of the Minister. (2) The Deputy Controllers and Assistant Controllers shall be under the direction and control of the Controller. (3) The Deputy Controllers may perform all the duties imposed and exercise all the powers conferred on the Controller. (4) The Controller and Deputy Controllers may perform all the duties imposed and exercise all the powers conferred on the Assistant Controllers. (5) The Controller or the Deputy Controller may in writing delegate all or any of his powers, duties or functions under this Part 

100 Laws of Malaysia ACT 815 to any Assistant Controller. Power of investigation 111. (1) Where the Assistant Controller has reasonable grounds to suspect that any offence is or will be committed under this Act, the Assistant Controller may conduct such invest igation as the Assistant Controller thinks expedient for the due administration of this Act. (2) Any Assistant Controller investigating any commission of an offence under this Act may exercise all or any of the powers in relation to police investigation in seizable cases given by the Criminal Procedure Code [Act 593]. Complaints to the Assistant Controller 112. (1) The Assistant Controller may, upon a complaint by a person, conduct an investigation on any person who has committed or is committing any offence under this Act. (2) The complaint made under subsection (1) shall specify the person against whom the complaint is made or the premises where the alleged offence is committed and details of the alleged offence under this Act. (3) If the complaint made under subs ection (1) is in relation to a trademark which is not identical with the registered trademark, any registered proprietor or licensee shall obtain the Registrar‘s verification in the form as determined by the Registrar together with the payment of the prescribed fee to be submitted to the Assistant Controller. (4) The Registrar’s verification under subsection (3), shall be prima facie evidence in any proceedings before any court of law. 

Trademarks 101 Chapter 2 Information gathering powers Power of the Assistant Controlle r to require provision of information 113. (1) This section applies if the Assistant Controller in carrying out an investigation under this Part has reason to believe that any person — (a) has any information or any document that is relevant to the performance of the Assistant Controller’s powers and functions under this Act; or (b) is capable of giving any evidence which the Assistant Controller has reason to believe is relevant to the performance of the Assistant Controller’s powers and functions under this Act. (2) Notwithstanding any provision of any other written law, the Assistant Controller, by written notice, may direct any person — (a) to provide the Assistant Controller, within the period and in the manner and form specified in the notice, any information or document referred to in subsection (1); (b) to produce to the Assistant Controller, within the period and in the manner specified in the notice, any information or document referred to in subsection (1), whether in physical or electronic form; (c) to make copies of, or extracts from, any document referred to in subsection (1) and to produce copies or extracts of such documents to the Assistant Controller within the period and in the manner specified in the notice; (d) if the person is an individual, to appear before the Assistant Controller at a time and place specified in the notice to give any information, either orally or in writing, and produce any document referred to in subsection (1), whether in physical or electronic form; 

102 Laws of Malaysia ACT 815 (e) if the person is a body corporate or a public body, to cause a relevant and competent officer of the body to appear before the Assistant Controller at a time and place specified in the notice to give any information, either orally or in writing, and produce any document referred to in subsection (1), whether in physical or electronic form; (f) if the person is a partnership, to cause an individual who is a partner in the partnership or an employee of the partnership to appear before the Assistant Controller at a time and place specified in the notice to give any information, either orally or in writing, and produce any document referred to in subsection (1), whether in physical or electronic form; or (g) to make a statement to the Assistant Controller providing an explanation on any informati on or document referred to in subsection (1) within the period and in the manner and form specified in the notice. (3) Where the Assistant Controller directs any person to produce any document under subsection (2) and the document is not in the custody of that person, that person shall— (a) state, to the best of his knowledge and belief, where the document may be found; and (b) identify, to the best of his knowledge and belief, the last person who had custody of the document and to state, to the best of his knowledge and belief, where that last- mentioned person may be found. (4) Any person directed to provide information under subsection (2) or (3) shall ensure that the information provided is true, accurate and complete and such person shall provide an express representation to that effect, including a declaration that he is not aware of any other information which would make the information provided untrue or misleading. (5) Any person who refuses or does not comply with the direction made by the Assistant Controller under this section commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding fifty thousand ringgit. 

Trademarks 103 Assistant Controller may retain documents 114. (1) The Assistant Controller may take and retain for such duration as he deems necessary, any document obtained under this Part. (2) The person who provided the document is entitled to be supplied, as soon as practicable, with a copy certified by the Assistant Controller to be a true copy of the document. (3) Notwithstanding the provisions of any other written law, the certified copy of the document shall be admissible as evidence as if it were the original document. (4) If the Assistant Controller is satisfied that it is no longer necessary to retain the document, the Assistant Controller may return the document to the person who provided the document, as soon as practicable. Confidentiality 115. (1) Any person who discloses or makes use of any confidential information or document with respect to a particular enterprise or the affairs of an individua l obtained by virtue of any provision of this Act commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding five hundred thousand ringgit. (2) Nothing in subsection (1) shall operate to prevent the disclosure of information where— ( a) the disclosure is made with the consent of the person from whom the information or document was obtained; ( b) the disclosure is made in circumstances where the information provided is framed in such a manner that the source of the information could not be ascertai ned; ( c) the information is already in the public domain; ( d) the disclosure is made to facilitate the performance of the functions or powers of the Controller, Deputy Controller or Assistant Controller; 

104 Laws of Malaysia ACT 815 ( e) the disclosure is reasonably made during any proceedings under this Act provided that such disclosure is not made against any direction by the Controller, Deputy Controller or Assistant Controller before whom those proceedings are taking place; or ( f) the disclosure is made in connection with the investigation of an offence under this Act. (3) For the purposes of this section, “confidential information” means trade, business or industrial information that belongs to any person, that has economic value and is not generally available to or known by others or any informat ion which is regarded as confidential under this Act. Privileged communication 116. (1) No person shall be required, under any provision of this Part, to produce or disclose any communication between a professional legal adviser and his client which would be protected from disclosure in accordance with section 126 of the Evidence Act 1950 [Act 56]. (2) The Controller may require an advocate and solicitor to provide any document under section 114. (3) Where the document required under subsection (2) contains privileged communication, made by or on behalf of or to the advocate and solicitor in his capacity as an advocate and solicitor — (a) the advocate and solicitor shall be entitled to refuse to comply with the requirement; or (b) the person to whom or by or on behalf of whom the privileged communication was made or, if the person is a body corporate that is under receivership or is in the course of being wound up, the receiver or the liquidator, as the case may be, may agree that the advocate and solicitor shall comply with the requirement. (4) Notwithstanding paragraph (3) (b) where the advocate and solicitor refuses to comply with the requirement, the advocate and solicitor shall forthwith furnish in writing to the Controller the name and address of the person to whom or by or on behalf of whom 

Trademarks 105 the privileged communication was made. Giving false or misleading information, evidence or document 117. A person who does not disclose or omits to give any relevant information, evidence or document, or provides any information, evidence or document that he knows or has reason to believe is false or misleading, in the course of investigation by the Assistant Controller, commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding one hundred thousand ringgit. Destruction, concealment, mutilation and alteration of records 118. A person who— (a) destroys, conceals, mutilates or alters; or (b) sends or attempts to send or conspires with any other person to remove from his premises or send out of Malaysia, any goods, documents, material, articles or things kept or maintained with intent to defraud the Assistant Controller or to prevent, delay or obstruct the carrying out of an investigation or the exercise of any power by the Assistant Controller under this Act commits an offenc e and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding one hundred thousand ringgit. Chapter 3 Powers of arrest, search, seizure etc. Power of arrest 119. (1) Any Assistant Controller may arrest without warrant any person whom he reasonably believe s has committed or is attempting to commit an offence under sections 99 to 102 of this Act. (2) Any Assistant Controller making an arrest under subsection (1) shall, without unnecessary delay, bring the person arrested to the nearest police station, and thereafter the person shall be dealt with 

106 Laws of Malaysia ACT 815 in accordance with the law relating to criminal procedure for the time being in force. Power to enter premises, inspect and seize goods, etc. 120. (1) Any Assistant Controller may, at all reasonable hours, exercise the following powers: (a) he may, for the purpose of ascertaining whether any offence under this Act has been committed, inspect any goods, documents, material, articles or things and enter any premises other than premises used only for dwelling; (b) if he has reasona ble cause to believe that an offence under this Act has been committed, he may seize and detain any goods, documents, material, articles or things for the purpose of ascertaining, by testing or otherwise, whether the offence has been committed; (c) he may seize and detain any goods, documents, material, articles or things which he has reason to believe may be required as evidence in any proceedings for an offence under this Act; and (d) he may, for the purpose of exercising his powers under this subsection, seize goods, documents, material, articles or things, but only if and to the extent that it is reasonably necessary in order to secure that the provisions of this Act and of any order made under this Act are duly observed, require any person having authority to do so to break open any container or open any vending machine and, if that person does not comply with the requirement, he may do so himself. (2) An Assistant Controller seizing any goods, documents, material, articles or things in the exercise of his powers under this section shall inform the person from whom they are seized and, in the case of goods seized from a vending machine, the person whose name and address are stated on the machine as being the proprietor or, if no name and address are so stated, the occupier of the premises on which the machine stands or to which it is affixed. 

Trademarks 107 (3) Where the goods, documents, material, articles or things seized by the Assistant Controller in the exercise of his powers under this section are by reason of their nature, size or amount not practical to be removed from where they are found, he may by any means seal such goods, documents, material, articles or things in the premises or container in which they are found and it shall be an offence for any person without lawful authority to break, tamper with or damage such seal or to remove such goods, documents, material, articles or things or to attempt to do so Magistrate may issue search warrant 121. (1) Whenever it appears to a Magistrate, upon written information on oath and after such inquiry as he considers necessary, that there are reasonable grounds to believe that any person has committed or is committing an offence under this Act, so that any evidence or thing which is necessary to the conduct of an investigation into any offence may be found in any premises, the Magistrate may issue a warrant authorizing any Assistant Controller named in the warrant to enter the premises at any time, with or without assistance, and if need be by force to search for and seize any such evidence or thing. (2) An Assistant Controller entering any premises under this section may take with him such other persons and such equipment as may appear to him necessary and on leaving any premises which he has entered by virtue of a warrant under the preceding subsection he shall, if the premises are unoccupied or the occupier is temporarily absent, leave them as effectively secured against trespassers as he found them. (3) Without affecting the generality of subsection (1), the warrant issued by the Magistrate may authorize the search and seizure of any goods, documents, material, articles or things which contains or is reasonably suspected to contain information as to any offence suspected to have been committed or is otherwise necessary to conduct an investigation into any offence. (4) The Assistant Controller conducting a search under subsection (1) may, for the purpose of investigating into the offence, search any person who is in or on the premises. (5) The Assistant Controller making a search of a person under subsection (4) may seize, or take possession of, and place in safe custody all things other than the necessary clothing found upon the 

108 Laws of Malaysia ACT 815 person, and any other things, in respect of which there is reason to believe are the instruments or evidence of the offence, and such things may be detained until the order by the court for its disposal. (6) If, by reason of its nature, size or amount, it is not practicable to remove any goods, documents, material, articles or things seized under this section, the Ass istant Controller who effected the seizure shall by any means seal the premises or container in which such goods, documents, material, articles or things is found. (7) A person who, without lawful authority, breaks, tampers with or damages the seal referred to in subsection (6) or removes any goods, documents, material, articles or things under seal or attempts to do so commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding one hundred thousand ringgit. Search may be made without warrant 122. If the Assistant Controller is satisfied upon information received that he has reasonable cause to believe that by reason of delay in obtaining a search warrant under section 121 the investigation would be adversely affected or evidence of the commission of an infringement or offence is likely to be tampered with, removed, damaged or destroyed, the Assistant Controller may enter the premises and exercise in, upon and in respect of the premises all the powers referred to in section 121 in as full and ample a manner as if he were authorized to do so by a warrant issued under that section. Access to recorded information or computerized data, etc. 123. (1) Any Assistant Controller exercising his powers under sections 120, 121 and 122 shall be given access to any recorded information or computerized or digitalized data, whether stored in a computer or otherwise. (2) In addition, the Assistant Controller exercising his powers under sections 120, 121 and 122— (a) may inspect the operation of any computer and any 

Trademarks 109 associated apparatus or material which he has reasonable cause to suspect is or has been used in connection with that information or data; and (b) may require — (i ) the person, by whom or on whose behalf, the Assistant Controller has reasonable cause to suspect the computer is or has been so used in connection with the information or data; or (i i ) the person having charge of, or is otherwise concerned with, the operation of the computer, apparatus or material in connection with the information or data, to provide him with such reasonable assistance as he may require for the purposes of this section. ( 3 ) The Assistant Controller may make copies or take extracts of the recorded information or computerized or digitalized data if he deems necessary. ( 4 ) For the purposes of this s ection, “access” includes being provided with the necessary password, encryption code, decryption code, software or hardware and any other means required to enable comprehension of recorded information and computerized or digitalized data. Tipping-off 124. (1) Any person who— (a) knows or has reason to suspect that an Assistant Controller is acting, or is proposing to act, in connection with an investigation which is being, or is about to be, conducted under or for the purposes of this Act and discloses to any ot her person information or any other matter which is likely to prejudice that investigation or proposed investigation; or (b) knows or has reason to suspect that a disclosure has been made to an Assistant Controller and discloses to 

110 Laws of Malaysia ACT 815 any other person informati on or any other matter which is likely to prejudice any investigation which might be conducted following the disclosure, commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding one hundred thousand ringgit. (2) Nothing in subsection (1) makes it an offence for an advocate and solicitor or his employee to disclose any information or other matter — ( a) to his client or the client’s representative in connection with the giving of advice to the client in the course and for the purpose of the professional employment of the advocate and solicitor; or ( b) to any person in contemplation of, or in connection with and for the purpose of, any legal proceedings. (3) Subsection (2) does not apply in relation to any information or other matter which is disclose d with a view to furthering any illegal purpose. (4) In any proceedings against a person for an offence under this section, it shall be a defence to prove that— ( a) he did not know or suspect that the disclosure made under paragraph (1) (b) was likely to prejudic e the investigation; or ( b) he had lawful authority or reasonable excuse for making the disclosure. (5) An Assistant Controller or any other person does not commit an offence under this section in respect of anything done by him in the course of acting in connection with the enforcement, or intended enforcement, of this Act. Warrant admissible notwithstanding defects 125. A search warrant issued under this Act shall be valid and enforceable notwithstanding any defect, mistake or omission in the 

Trademarks 111 warrant or in the application for such warrant and any goods, documents, material, articles or things seized under such warrant shall be admissible in evidence in any proceedings under this Act. List of seized goods, etc. 126. (1) Except as provided in subsection (2), where any goods, documents, material, articles or things is seized under this Part, the Assistant Controller who effected the seizure shall as soon as practicable prepare a list of the things seized and immediately deliver a copy of the list signed by him to the occupier of the premises which has been searched, or to his agent or servant, at the premises. (2) Where the premises are unoccupied, the Assistant Controller who effected the seizure shall wherever possible post a list of the things seized conspicuously on the premises. Forfeiture of seized goods, etc. 127. (1) All goods, documents, material, articles or things seized in exercise of any power conferred under this Act shall be liable to forfeiture. (2) An order for the forfeiture or for the release of any goods, documents, material, articles or things seized in exercise of any power conferred under this Act shall be made by the court before which the prosecution with regard thereto has been held and an order for the forfeiture of the goods, documents, material, articles or things shall be made if it is proved to the satisfaction of the court that an offence under this Act has been committed and that the goods, documents, material, articles or things were the subject matter of or were used in the commission of the offence notwithstanding that no person may have been convicted of such offence. (3) If there is no prosecution with regard to any goods, documents, material, articles or things seized in exercise of any power conferred under this Act, such goods, documents , material, articles or things shall be taken and deemed forfeited at the 

112 Laws of Malaysia ACT 815 expiration of one calendar month from the date of seizure unless a claim to such goods, documents, material, articles or things is made before the date in the manner hereinafter set forth. (4) Any person asserting that he is the owner of such goods, documents, material, articles or things and that they are not liable to forfeiture may personally or by his agent authorized in writing give written notice to an Assistant Controller that he claims the same. (5) On receipt of such notice the Assistant Controller shall refer the claim to the Controller who may direct that such goods, documents, material, articles or things be released or forfeited or may direct the Assistant Controller to refer the matter to a court for decision. (6) The court to which the matter is referred shall issue a summons requiring the person asserting that he is the owner of the goods, documents, material, articles or things and the person from whom they were seized to appear before it and upon his appearance or default to appear, due service of the summons being proved, the court shall proceed to the examination of the matter and on proof that an offence under this Act has been committed and that such goods, documents, mate rial, articles or things were the subject matter or were used in the commission of such offence shall order the same to be forfeited or may in the absence of such proof order their release. (7) All goods, documents, material, articles or things forfeited or deemed forfeited shall be delivered to the Assistant Controller and shall be disposed of in accordance with the directions of the Controller. Release of seized goods, etc. 128. (1) If any goods, documents, material, articles or things has been seized under thi s Act, the Assistant Controller who effected the seizure may release the goods, documents, material, articles or things to the person as he determines to be lawfully entitled to it, if he is satisfied that the goods, documents, material, articles or things is not otherwise required for the purpose of any proceedings under this Act, or for the purpose of any prosecution under any other written law, and in such event neither the Assistant Controller 

Trademarks 113 effecting the seizure, nor the Federal Government, the Controller or any person acting on behalf of the Federal Government or the Controller shall not be liable to any proceedings by any person if the seizure and the release of the goods, documents, material, articles or things had been effected in good faith. (2) A record in writing shall be made by the Assistant Controller effecting the release of anything under subsection (1) specifying in detail the circumstances of, and the reason for, the release, and he shall send a copy of such record to the Public Prosecu tor within seven days of the release. Seizure of perishable goods 129. Where any goods seized in exercise of the powers conferred by this Act are of a perishable nature or where the custody of such goods involves unreasonable expense and inconvenience, such goods may be sold by the Assistant Controller at any time and the proceeds of the sale held to abide by the result of any prosecution or claim under this section. No cost or damages arising from seizure to be recoverable 130. No person shall, in any proceedi ngs before any court in respect of any goods, documents, material, articles or things seized in the exercise or the purported exercise of any power conferred under this Act, be entitled to the costs of such proceedings or to any damages or other relief unless such seizure was made without reasonable cause. Obstruction 131. Any person who— (a) refuses to give any Assistant Controller access to any premises which the Assistant Controller is entitled to have under this Act or in the execution of any duty imposed or power conferred by this Act; or (b) assaults, obstructs, hinders or delays any Assistant Controller in effecting any entry which the Assistant 

114 Laws of Malaysia ACT 815 Controller is entitled to effect under this Act or in the execution of any duty imposed or power conferred by this Act, commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding one hundred thousand ringgit. Evidence of agent provocateur is admissible 132. (1) Notwithstanding any rule of law or the provisions of this Act or any other written law to the contrary, no agent provocateur shall be presumed to be unworthy of credit by reason only of his having attempted to abet or abetted the commission of an offence by any person under this Act if the attempt to abet or abetment was for the sole purpose of securing evidence against such person. (2) Notwithstanding any rule of law or the provisions of this Act or any other written law to the contrary, any statement, whether oral or in writing made to the agent provocateur by any person who subsequen tly is charged with an offence under this Act shall be admissible as evidence at his trial. Taking of samples 133. (1) Where any goods, documents, material, articles or things which are the subject matter of an offence under this Act are found in two or more packages or receptacles of the same description, it shall be presumed until the contrary is proved that all the packages or receptacles contain goods, documents, material, articles or things of the same nature, quantity and quality. (2) Where packages or receptacles containing goods, documents, material, articles or things which contravene the provisions of this Act or are otherwise liable to seizure have been seized, it shall be sufficient only to open and examine one per centum or not less than five sample s, whichever is the lesser, of the contents of each package or receptacle seized. (3) The court shall presume that the remaining samples contained in the package or receptacle is of the same nature as those samples examined. 

Trademarks 115 Jurisdiction to try offences 134. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any written law, a Sessions Court shall have jurisdiction to try any offence under this Act and to impose the full punishment for any such offence. Institution of prosecution 135. No prosecution for an offence under this Act shall be instituted except by or with the written consent of the Public Prosecutor. Compounding of offences 136. (1) The Minister may, with the approval of the Public Prosecutor, make regulations prescribing — (a) any offence under this Act and any regulations made under this Act that may be compounded; (b) the criteria for compounding such offence; and (c) the method and procedure for compounding such offence. (2) The Controller may, with the consent in writing of the Public Prosecutor, at any time before a charge is being instituted, compound any offence prescribed as an offence which may be compounded by making a written offer to the person reasonably suspected of having committed the offence to compound the offence upon payment to the Controller of a sum of money not exceeding fifty per centum of the amount of the maximum fine to which the person would have been liable to if he had been convicted of the offence, within such time as may be specified in the written offer. (3) An offer under subsection (2) may be made at any time after the offence has been committed but before any prosecution for it has been instituted, and where the amount specified in the offer is not paid within the time specified in the offer, or such extended time as the Controller may grant, p rosecution for the offence may be instituted at any time after that against the person to whom the offer was made. 

116 Laws of Malaysia ACT 815 (4) Where an offence has been compounded under subsection (2), no prosecution shall be instituted in respect of the offence against the person to whom the offer to compound was made, and the Controller may forfeit or return any goods, documents, material, articles or things seized in connection with the offence, subject to such terms as the Controller thinks fit. (5) All sums of money received by the Controller under this section shall be paid into and form part of the Federal Consolidated Fund. Principal liable for acts of servant or agent 137. Where the servant or agent of a person commits an offence or does anything or omits to do anything which if done or omitted to be done by that person would constitute an offence under this Act, that person shall, notwithstanding that he has no knowledge of the offence, be deemed to be guilty of the offence and shall be liable to punishment for the offence unless he proves that— (a) the act or omission complained of was not within the ordinary scope of the employment of the servant or of the agency of the agent; or (b) the act or omission complained of was done or omitted to be done without his consent or connivance and that he exercised all such diligence to prevent the commission or omission as he ought to have exercised having regard to all the circumstances of the case. Offences committed by body corporate 138. (1) If a body corporate commits an offence under this Act, any person who at the time of the commission of the offence was a director, chief executive officer, chief operating officer, manager, secretary or other similar officer of the body corporate or was purporting to act in any such capacity or was in any manner or to any extent responsible for the management of any of the affairs of the body corporate or was assisting in such management — (a) may be charged severally or jointly in the same proceedings with the body corporate; and 

Trademarks 117 (b) if the body corporate is found guilty of the offence, shall be deemed to be guilty of that offence unless, having regard to the nature of his functions in that capacity and to all circumstances, he proves — (i) that the offence was committed without his knowledge, consent or connivance; and (ii) that he had taken all reasonable precautions and exercised due diligence to prevent the commission of the offence. (2) If any person would be liable under this Act to any punishment or penalty for his act, omission, neglect or default, he shall be liable to the same punishment or penalty for every such act, omission, neglect or default of any employee or agent of his, or of the employee of the agent, if the act, omission, neglect or default was committed — (a) by that person’s employee in the course of his employment; (b) by the agent when acting on behalf of that person; or (c) by the employee of the agent in the course of his employment by the agent or otherwise on behalf of the agent acting on behalf of that person. Protection of Controller, Deputy Control ler, Assistant Controller or other persons 139. No action, suit, prosecution or other proceedings shall be brought, instituted or maintained in any court against — (a) the Controller, Deputy Controller, Assistant Controller or any other person in respect of any act ordered or done for the purpose of carrying into effect this Act; and (b) any other person in respect of any act done or purported to be done by him under the order, direction or instruction of the Controller if the act was done in good faith and in a reasonable belief that it was necessary for the purpose intended to be served by it. 

118 Laws of Malaysia ACT 815 PART XVII LEGAL PROCEEDINGS IN COURT, COST AND EVIDENCE Service of applications to Court on the Registrar 140. (1) A copy of every application to the Court, including appeals to the Court of Appeal or Federal Court, relating to the application for registration or registered trademark shall be filed with the Registrar by the parties to the application to the Court in the manner as determined by the Registrar within the prescribed period, without having to name the Registrar as a party. (2) Upon receipt of the application under subsection (1), the Registrar may change the status of the application or registration of trademark as the Registrar deems fit, subject to further condition, direction, instruction, order or judgment of the Court. (3) Any order or judgment made by the Court upon the completion of the application filed under subsection (1) shall be filed with the Registrar in the manner as determined by the Registrar. (4) The Registrar , under subsection (3), shall comply and give effect to the Court’s order or judgment. (5) If the Registrar considers that publicity should be given upon giving effect to the Court’s order, he may publish it in the Intellectual Property Official Journal. Registrar’s appearance in proceedings involving the Register 141. (1) In any legal proceedings before the Court which includes an application for— (a) the revocation of the registration of trademark; (b) the declaration of the invalidity of the registration of a trademark; or (c) the correction in the Register, the Registrar shall have the right to appear and be heard, and shall appear if so directed by the Court. 

Trademarks 119 (2) Unless otherwise directed by the Court, the Registrar, in lieu of appearing and being heard, may submi t to the Court a statement in writing and signed by him, giving particulars of the proceedings before him in relation to the matter in issue or of the grounds of any decision given by him affecting the same or of the practice of the office in like cases, or of such other matters relevant to the issues, and within his knowledge as Registrar, as he thinks fit, and such statement shall be deemed to form part of the evidence in the proceedings. Costs of proceedings before the Court 142. In all proceedings befo re the Court, the Court may, in its discretion, award any party including the Registrar such costs as it may consider reasonable but the Registrar shall not be ordered to pay the costs of any of the other parties. Certificate of validity 143. In any legal proceedings in which the validity of a registered trademark comes into question and is decided in favour of the registered proprietor, the Court may certify to that effect, and if it so certifies then in any subsequent legal proceedings in which the validity of the registration comes into question the registered proprietor on obtaining a final order or judgment in his favour shall have his full costs, charges and expenses as between solicitor and client, unless in the subsequent proceedings the Court certif ies that he ought not to have them. Evidentiary value of copies certified by Registrar 144. A copy or extract from any form or document filed at the Trademark Office of which the Registrar certified to be a true copy or extract signed and sealed by the Registrar shall be admissible in evidence in any proceedings as of equal validity with the original document. 

120 Laws of Malaysia ACT 815 Sealed copies of document to be evidence 145. (1) Printed or written copies or extracts of or from the Register purporting to be certified by the Registr ar and sealed with his seal shall be admissible as evidence in any proceedings before any court without further proof or production of the originals. (2) A notification or certificate of registration shall be admissible as evidence in any proceedings before any court of law without further proof or production of the originals. (3) A certificate purporting to be under the hand of the Registrar as to any act which he is authorized to perform and which he has or has not performed shall be prima facie evidence in any proceedings before any court of law of his having or not having performed the act. (4) No person in the employment of the Corporation shall be required to attend the court for the purposes of producing — (a) any documents relating to a trademark application or registered trademark which may be obtained under the provisions of this Act; or (b) any documents which are prescribed as confidential, not open for public inspection or to be made available to any third parties in accordance with this Act. Electronic information, etc., certified by the Registrar admissible in evidence 146. Any form, information or document, a copy or extract from any form, information or document electronically filed with the Registrar or issued by the Registrar, shall be a true extract from any form, information or documents filed with or submitted to the Registrar as required under this Act shall be prima facie evidence of matters specified in that form, information, document, copy or extract. Minister may declare documents of foreign state pertaining to trademarks to be admissible as evidence 147. (1) The Minister may, by order published in the Gazette, 

Trademarks 121 declare any documents or class of documents of a foreign state to be admissible as evidence in any proceedings before a Court if— (a) the document is sealed with the seal of the authorized officer or the government of the foreign state and the seal pertains to the trademarks registered in or otherwise recognized by the foreign country or if there is no such seal, there is enclosed a certificat e signed by the authorized officer to the effect that the document shall be evidence of the matter contained therein; and (b) the foreign state or part thereof has entered into reciprocal arrangements with the Government of Malaysia in respect of the admissi bility of the documents. (2) For the purposes of this section — ( a) “authorized officer” means a person or authority authorized by the government of the foreign state to keep and maintain a register or other record of trademarks under any written law in force in the foreign state relating to trademarks; ( b) “document” means — (i) a printed or written copy of extract or other record of trademarks kept and maintained in the foreign state under any written law in force in the foreign state relating to trademarks; or (ii) any other document pertaining to any matter or act in relation to trademarks registered in or otherwise recognized by the foreign state as trademarks; and ( c) “trademark” means any sign which includes the following or any combination of the following, namely, any letter, word, name, signature, numeral, device, brand, heading, label, ticket, shape of goods or their packaging, colour (whether single colour or a combination of colours), sound, scent, hologram, positioning, sequence of motion which is used or intend to be used in relation to goods or services for the purpose of indicating or so as to indicate a connection in the course of trade between the goods or services and a person having the right either as proprietor or licencee 

122 Laws of Malaysia ACT 815 to use the trademark (in th e foreign state) whether with or without any indication of the identity of that person and which is registered or otherwise recognized by the foreign state as a trademark (under any written law in force in the foreign state relating to trademarks) but doe s not include the trademarks of another foreign state registered in or otherwise recognized by the foreign state by virtue of a reciprocal arrangement between the foreign state and that other foreign state. (3) For the avoidance of doubt, this section shal l not be construed to confer recognition of the trademarks of any foreign state for the purpose of registration under this Act but shall be construed only with references to the admissibility of evidence in any proceedings before a Court of the documents of the foreign state. PART XVIII MISCELLANEOUS AND GENERAL Intellectual Property Official Journal 148. (1) The Registrar shall publish an Intellectual Property Official Journal which shall contain — (a) all matters relating to trademarks which are required to be published under this Act; and (b) such other information or matters relating to trademarks as the Registrar deems necessary. (2) The Intellectual Property Official Journal shall be made available to the public on the payment of the prescribed fee. (3) Publication in the Intellectual Property Official Journal shall constitute sufficient notice of any matter required to be published under this Act. (4) A copy of the Intellectual Property Official Journal shall on its production be admitted in legal proceedings as eviden ce without further proof being given that the copy was so published. 

Trademarks 123 (5) A copy of the Intellectual Property Official Journal shall be prima facie evidence of the facts stated therein. (6) Where the Intellectual Property Official Journal is published in more tha n one form, the date of publication of the Intellectual Property Official Journal shall be deemed to be the date the Intellectual Property Official Journal is first published in any form. Electronic filing 149. (1) The Registrar may provide a service for the electronic filing of documents required by this Act to be filed with the Registrar. (2) A document electronically filed under this section shall be deemed to have satisfied the requirement for filing if the document is communicated or transmitted to the Registrar in such manner as determined by the Registrar. (3) A document that is required to be stamped, signed or sealed shall, if the document is to be electronically filed, be certified to be true copy or authenticated in such manner as determined by the Regis trar. (4) Where a document that is required to be signed and attested under this Act is to be filed electronically, the requirement for attestation of the signature does not apply. (5) If a document is electronically filed with the Registrar, the Registrar shall not be liable for any loss or damage suffered by any person by reason of any error or omission of whatever nature or however arising appearing in any document obtained by any person under the service referred to in subsection (1), if such error or omissi on occurred or arose as a result of any defect or breakdown in the service or in the equipment used for the provision of the service or without the knowledge of the Registrar. Issuing document electronically 150. The Registrar may, by electronic means, issue a document which is to be issued by the Registrar under this Act. 

124 Laws of Malaysia ACT 815 Address for service 151. (1) For the purposes of this Act, an address for service in Malaysia of an applicant, any person who opposes the registration of a trademark or any other person who is involved in any proceedings before the Registrar, who is residing or carrying on business principally in Malaysia shall be furnished with the Registrar in the manner as determined by the Registrar. (2) The address furnished with the Registrar under subsecti on (1) shall be entered into the Registrar’s record or Register and shall be deemed to be the address for service of the person under subsection (1) for all the proceedings before the Registrar. (3) An address for service may be changed upon notifying the Registrar in the form as determined by him and within the prescribed period which shall be entered into the Registrar’s record or Register. (4) Upon receipt of the request for change in subsection (3) together with the payment of the prescribed fee, the Registrar shall change the address for service of the person under subsection (1) which may affect some or all of his applications for registration or registered trademarks. (5) The Registrar may refuse to proceed with the application or registration of trademark if the address of service as stated in subsection (1) is not furnished. (6) If the person stated in subsection (1) is not residing or carrying on business in Malaysia, he shall appoint and authorize a registered trademark agent to act for him in the prescribed manner. (7) When the person mentioned in subsection (1) appoints and authorizes a registered trademark agent to act for him, the address of service of the registered trademark agent which shall be entered into the Registrar’s record or Register, shall be deemed to be the address for service of the person under subsection (1) for all proceedings before the Registrar. Power of Registrar to allow amendments of documents 152. (1) The Registrar may, upon an application in the form as 

Trademarks 125 determined by the Registrar toget her with the payment of the prescribed fee and on such terms as to costs as he thinks just, whether for the purpose of amending a clerical error or an obvious mistake, allow the amendment of— (a) an application for the registration of trademark; (b) notice of opposition; (c) counterstatement; or (d) any documents as the Registrar thinks fit. (2) An amendment applied under subsection (1), shall not be permitted, under this section if the amendment would substantially affect — (a) the identity of the trademark as specified in the application before amendment or without extending in any way the rights given by the existing registration of trademark; or (b) the content of the documents filed with the Trademarks Office. Power of Registrar to allow extension of time 153. (1) Where by this Act, a time is specified within which an act or thing is to be done, the Registrar may, unless otherwise expressly provided or directed by the Court, upon application in the form as determined by the Registrar, extend the time either before or after its expiration upon payment of the prescribed fee. (2) Subsection (1) shall not be applicable to sections 26, 27 and 28 except where the circumstances under subsection (3) apply. (3) Where by reason of— (a) an error or omission by the person or by his registered trademark agent; 

126 Laws of Malaysia ACT 815 (b) circumstances beyond the control of the person or by his registered trademark agent; or (c) an error or action on the part of the Trademark Office, an act in relation to an application for the registration of trademark or in proceedings under this Act (not being proceedings in a Court) required to be done within a certain time has not been so done, the Registrar may extend the time for doing the act. (4) The time required for doing an act under subsection (3) may be extended even though that time has expired. Mode of giving evidence 154. (1) For the purposes of subsection 105(1), in all proceedings before the Registrar, evidence shall be given by statutory declaration in the absence of directions to the contrary but in any case in which he thinks fit, the Registrar may take evidence viva voce in lieu of or in addition to evidence by declaration. (2) Any such statutory declaration may, in the case of an appeal, be used before the Court in lieu of evidence by affidavit, but if so used, shall have all the incidents and consequences of evidence by affidavit. (3) In any action or proceedings relating to a trademark, the Registrar or the Court, as the case may be, shall admit evidence of the usages of the trade concerned or evidence of business usages in the provision of the services in question and evidence of any relevant trademarks or trade name or business name or get-up legitimately used by other persons. Exercise of discretionary power 155. Where any discretionary power is given to the Registrar by this Act, he shall not exercise that power adversely to the applicant for registration of trademark or the registered proprietor in question without, if duly required to do so within the prescribed period, giving to the applicant an opportunity of being heard. 

Trademarks 127 Power of the Registrar to treat documents as confidential 156. (1) In accordance with the regulations, the Registrar may— (a) require that specified information in a document that has been filed, or is to be filed, in relation to a trademark be held in the Trademarks Office confidentially; (b) make such a requirement subject to specified conditions or limitations; and (c) vary or revoke such a requirement, condition or limitation. (2) For the purposes of this section, procedures in connection with the making, varyi ng or revoking of any requirements, conditions or limitations shall be as prescribed. Adaptation of entries to new classification 157. (1) The Registrar may consider the necessary to implement any amendment or substitution of classification of goods or services for the purposes of the registration of trademarks including making the amendment of existing entries on the Register so as to accord with the new classification as prescribed. (2) The amendment made under subsection (1) shall not extend the rights conferr ed by the registration, except where it appears to the Registrar that compliance with this requirement would involve undue complexity and that any extension would not be substantial and would not adversely affect the rights of any person. (3) The Registrar may— (a) require the registered proprietor, within such prescribed period, to file a proposal for amendment of the Register; and (b) cancel any relevant goods or services as identified by the Registrar or refuse to renew the registration of trademark in the event of his failing to do so. 

128 Laws of Malaysia ACT 815 (4) Any proposal made under paragraph (3) (a) shall be published in the Intellectual Property Official Journal and may be opposed in accordance with section 35. Costs awarded by Registrar 158. (1) In all proceedings before the Registrar, the Registrar shall have power to award to any party such costs including taxation of the costs as he may consider reasonable and to direct how and by what parties they are to be paid, and any such order may, by leave of the Court, be enforced in the same manner as a judgment or order of the Court to the same effect. (2) A party to any proceedings before a Registrar who is desirous to obtain costs or to have the costs taxed shall apply to the Registrar in the prescribed manner. (3) Costs awarded by the Registrar under subsection (1) may, in default of payment be recovered in a court of competent jurisdiction as a debt due by the person against whom the costs were accorded to the person in whose favour they were accorded. Unregistered trademarks 159. (1) No person s hall be entitled to initiate any action to prevent or to recover damages for the infringement of an unregistered trademark. (2) Notwithstanding subsection (1), nothing in this Act shall be deemed to affect the right of action against any person for passin g off goods or services as those of another person or the remedies in respect of the goods or services. Guidelines or practice directions by Registrar 160. (1) The Registrar may issue guidelines or practice directions on any matter. ( 2 ) The guidelines or practi ce directions issued by the Registrar 

Trademarks 129 under this section shall be published in the Intellectual Property Official Journal and shall be effective from the date as specified in the guidelines or directions. ( 3 ) Any person who are specified in the provision under this Act shall comply with the guidelines and practice directions. ( 4 ) The Registrar may vary, review or revoke any guidelines or practice directions. ( 5 ) Subject to subsection (4), the procedures set out in subsections (2) and (3) shall apply in respect of any variation, review or revocation of the guidelines or practice directions. ( 6 ) Any person, applicant or registered proprietor who does not comply with any guidelines or practice directions of the Registrar, where such guidelines or practice directions are applicable to such person, applicant or registered proprietor — ( a) is deemed to have failed to fulfil the requirements as required by the Registrar which renders the application as withdrawn, lapsed, refused, revoked or as determined by the Registrar; or ( b) commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding ten thousand ringgit. Power to amend Schedules 161. (1) The Minister may, by order published in the Gazette, amend the First and Second Schedules. (2) The Minister shall, before making an amendment to the First or Second Schedule — (a) publish a notice of his intention in the Intellectual Property Official Journal to make the amendment and the proposed amendment; (b) give at least thirty days from the date of notice to allow 

130 Laws of Malaysia ACT 815 any submission to be made by members of the association, competent body or the public in relation to the proposed amendment; and (c) give due consideration to any submission made. Power to make regulations 162. (1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Minister may make regulations for the purpose of carrying into effect the provisions of this Act. (2) In particular and without prejudice to the generality of subsection (1), such regulations may provide for all or any of the following purposes: (a) to regulate the practice, other than that relating to proceedings before the court or connected therewith, under this Act including service of documents; (b) to classify goods or services for the purpose of registration of trademarks; (c) to provide for all matters relating to registration of trademark including renewal of registered trademark; (d) to provide for all matters relating to alteration or voluntary cancellation of registered trademark, revocation or invalidity of registration, or correction of Register; (e) to secure and regulate the publishing and selling or distributing in such manner as the Minister may think fit of copies of extracts of trademarks and other documents from the record or Register; (f) to prescribe fees to be paid for any matter or thing under this Act; (g) to regulate all matters relating to registered trademarks agents; 

Trademarks 131 (h) to regulate matters relating to the registration listing goods or services comprising more than one class in one application; (i) to regulate all matters relating to division of application for registration or registered trademarks; (j) to regulate all matters relating to merger of application for registration or registered trademarks; (k) to regulate all matters relating to certification mark and collective mark; (l) to regulate all matters relating to a series trademar k; (m) to regulate generally on matters pertaining to the business operation relating to trademarks carried on in any Trademarks Office whether or not specifically prescribed under this Act but so as not to be inconsistent with any of the provisions of this Act; (n) to regulate the matters in determining whether a trademark is well -known and has fulfilled the requirement stipulated under Article 6 bis of the Paris Convention and Article 16 of the TRIPS Agreement; (o) to regulate the use of trademarks including how the trademark is applied to or applied in relation to goods or services; (p) to regulate matters relating to use of trademarks on the internet; (q) to provide for the manner and effect of a cancellation and for protecting the interests of other persons having a right in the registered trademark; (r) to regulate all matters relating to border measures; (s) to prescribe the entry, particulars or matters to be entered into the record or Register; and 

132 Laws of Malaysia ACT 815 (t) to prescribe for all matters relating to appeals filed in Court followi ng the decision of the Registrar relating to the time for starting the action or the manner for an application to be made for an extension of that time, subject to the provisions of the rules of court. (3) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Rules Committee constituted under the Courts of Judicature Act 1964, may make rules of court regulating the practice and procedure in relation to proceedings before the Court or connected therewith and the costs of the proceedings. Appeal from Registrar 163. Notwithstanding any provision in any written law in relation to judicial review, any person aggrieved by the decision of the Registrar in relation to the following matters may appeal to the Court: (a) decision of the Registrar relating to examination of application under subsection 29(8); (b) decision of the Registrar not to allow any amendment of application for registration of trademark under section 33; (c) decision of the Registrar relating to opposition proceedings under subsection 35(10); (d) decision of the Registrar not to allow any alteration of a registered trademark under section 42; (e) decision of the Registrar not to allow any correction in the Register under section 43; (f) decision relating to the revocation of registration by the Registrar under subsection 45(4) ; (g) decision of the Registrar relating to the registration of any transaction affecting any registered trademark under section 65; 

Trademarks 133 (h) decision of the Registrar relating to any application for registration of a trademark as an object of property under section 67; (i) decision of the Registrar relating to the registration of a trademark agent under section 97; (j) decision of the Registrar not to allow amendments of documents under section 152; and (k) decision of the Registrar under paragraph 6 of the First Schedule and Second Schedule. PART XIX REPEAL, SAVINGS AND TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS Chapter 1 Repeal and savings Repeal and savings 164. (1) The Trade Marks Act 1976 is repealed. (2) Notwithstanding the repeal of the Act under subsection (1)— (a) any appointment made under the repealed Act shall continue in force and have effect as if it had been made under this Act; (b) all decisions, directions and notices made or issued under the repealed Act shall, to the extent that the decisions, directions and notices are consistent with this Act, continue in force until such decisions, directions and notices are revoked or amended; (c) any investigation, trial and proceedings done, taken or commenced under the repealed Act immediately before the commencement of this Act shall, on the commen cement of this Act, be dealt with as if the repealed Act has not been repealed by this Act; and (d) nothing in the repealed Act or this Act shall affect any 

134 Laws of Malaysia ACT 815 person’s liability to be prosecuted or punished for offences committed under the repealed legislation before the commencement of this Act, or any proceedings brought, sentence imposed or action taken before that day in respect of such offence. Chapter 2 Transitional provisions for trademarks Interpretation 165. (1) Notwithstanding the repeal, the following subsections shall be applicable. (2) In this Chapter, “existing registered mark” means a trade mark, certification trade mark or defensive trade mark registered under the repealed Act immediately before the commencement of this Act. (3) For the purposes of this Chapter — (a) an application shall be treated as pending on the commencement of this Act if it was made but not finally determined before commencement of this Act; and (b) the date on which it was made shall be taken to be the date of filing under the repealed Act. Existing registered marks 166. (1) Any existing registered marks kept in the Register under the repealed Act, subject to the provision of this Part, shall be a registered trademark for the purposes of this Act. (2) Any existing registered mark registered as a certification trade mark in the Register kept under the repealed Act shall be a registered certification mark for the purposes of this Act. (3) Any existing registered mark registered as a series of trade marks in the Register kept under the repealed Act shall be similarly registered in the Register kept under this Act for the purposes of 

Trademarks 135 this Act. (4) Any indication that an existing registered mark is associated with any other mark shall cease to have effect on the commencement of this Act. (5) A condition, discl aimer or limitation entered into the Register under the repealed Act in relation to an existing registered mark immediately before the commencement of this Act shall be incorporated into the Register kept under this Act and have effect as if entered into the Register pursuant to section 36 of this Act. (6) Sections 37 and 38 of this Act may be applied in relation to an existing registered mark under the repealed Act on the commencement of this Act. Effects of registration in relation to infringement 167. (1) Sections 48, 49, 50, 51 and 54 of this Act apply in relation to an existing registered mark as from the commencement of this Act and section 56 of this Act applies in relation to infringement of an existing registered mark committed after the commencement of this Act, subject to subsection (2). (2) Sections 38 and 51 of the repealed Act continue to apply in relation to infringements committed before the commencement of this Act. Infringing goods, material or articles 168. Section 59 of this Act applies to infringing goods, material or articles whether the application for the order is made before or after the commencement of this Act. Rights and remedies of licensee or authorized user 169. (1) Section 70 of this Act applies to licences granted before the commencem ent of this Act only in relation to infringements committed after the commencement of this Act. 

136 Laws of Malaysia ACT 815 (2) Subparagraph 9(2) of the Second Schedule of this Act apply only in relation to infringements committed after the commencement of this Act. Co-proprietorship of registered mark 170. (1) Section 63 of this Act applies as from the commencement of this Act to an existing registered mark of which two or more persons were immediately before commencement of this Act registered as joint proprietors. ( 2 ) Where two or more persons are registered as joint proprietors under section 21 of the repealed Act shall continue to exist as if this Act has not been enacted. Assignment, etc., of registered mark 171. (1) Section 64 of this Act applies to transactions occurring after the commencement of this Act in relation to an existing registered mark and the repealed Act continues to apply in relation to transactions occurring before the commencement of this Act. (2) Existing entries under section 47 of the repealed Act shall be transferred on the commencement of this Act to the Register kept under this Act and have effect as if made under section 65 of this Act. (3) An application for registration under section 47 of the repealed Act which is pending before the Registrar on the commencement of this Act or which has been determined by the Registrar but not finally determined before the commencement of this Act shall be treated as an application for registration under sections 65 and 67 of this Act and shall proceed accordingly. (4) For the purposes of subsection (3), the Registrar may require the applicant to amend his application so as to conform to the requirements of this Act and subsection (2) shall apply in relation to any resulting entry in the Register. (5) Where before the commencement of this Act, a person has 

Trademarks 137 become entitled by assignment or transmission to an existing registered mark but has not registered his title, any application for registration after commencement of this Act shall be made under section 64 of this Act. (6) For the purposes of subsections (3) and (5), subsection 47(3) of the repealed Act shall continue to apply as regards the consequences of failing to register. Licensing of registered mark 172. (1) Section 69 of this Act applies only in relation to licences granted after the commencement of this Act and the repealed Act continues to apply in relation to licences granted before the commencement of this Act until the expiration of such licences. (2) Existing entries under section 48 of the repealed Act shall be transferred on the commencement of this Act to the Register kept under this Act and have effect as if made under section 65 of this Act. (3) An application for registration as a registered user which is pending before the Registrar on the commencement of this Act or which has bee n determined by the Registrar but not finally determined before the commencement of this Act shall be treated as an application for registration of a licence under section 65 or 67 of this Act and shall proceed accordingly. (4) The Registrar may require the applicant to amend his application so as to conform to the requirements of this Act and subsection (2) shall apply in relation to any resulting entry in the Register. (5) Any proceedings pending on the commencement of this Act under subsection 49(1) of the repealed Act shall be dealt with under the repealed Act and any necessary alteration shall be made to the Register under this Act. 

138 Laws of Malaysia ACT 815 Pending applications for registration 173. (1) An application for registration of a mark under the repealed Act which is pending on the commencement of this Act shall be dealt with under the repealed Act subject to the following subsections, and if registered, the mark shall be treated for the purposes of this section as an existing registered mark. (2) Section 22 of the repealed Act shall be disregarded after the commencement of this Act for an application for registration. (3) Sections 34 and 35 of this Act shall apply to an application for registration of a mark under the repealed Act which is pending publication on the commenc ement of this Act. (4) Sections 32, 33 and 155 of this Act shall apply to an application for registration of a mark under the repealed Act which is pending registration on the commencement of this Act. (5) Section 37 or 38 of this Act may be applied in relation to an application for registration of a mark under the repealed Act which is pending registration on the commencement of this Act. Conversion of pending application 174. (1) In the case of a pending application for registration which has not been examined under the repealed Act before the commencement of this Act, the applicant may give notice to the Registrar claiming to have the registrability of the mark determined in accordance with the provisions of this Act. ( 2 ) The notice shall be filed in the form as determined by the Registrar together with the payment of the prescribed fee within two months from the date of the commencement of this Act. ( 3 ) A notice filed under subsection (2) shall be irrevocable and shall have the effect that the application shall be treated as if the application for registration is made after the commencement of this Act. 

Trademarks 139 Trademarks registered according to old classification 175. (1) The Registrar may exercise the powers conferred by regulations under section 162 of this Act to secure that any existing registered marks which do not conform to the system of classification as prescribed under section 19 of this Act are brought into conformity with that system. (2) Subsection (1) shall apply to existing registered marks classified in accordanc e with the classification as specified in Third Schedule of the Trade Marks Regulations 1997 [P.U. (A) 460/1997]. Claim to priority of Convention application 176. (1) Where before the commencement of this Act, a person has duly filed an application for protection of a trademark in a Convention country, section 26, 27 or 28 of this Act shall apply to an application for registration under this Act made after the commencement of this Act. (2) Nothing in this section affects proceedings on an application for registration under the repealed Act made before the commencement of this Act. Duration and renewal of registration 177. (1) Subsection 39(1) of this Act shall apply in relation to the registration of trademark pursuant to an application made after the commencem ent of this Act and the repealed law shall continue to apply in relation to a trademark registered before the commencement of this Act. (2) Subsection 39(2) and section 40 of this Act shall apply where the renewal of existing registered marks under the repeal ed Act falls due on or after the commencement of this Act and the repealed Act shall continue to apply for existing registered marks where its renewal does not fall due on or after the commencement of this Act. (3) For the purposes of subsection (2), the renewal fee under this Act shall be applicable regardless that such fee has been paid before the commencement of this Act. 

140 Laws of Malaysia ACT 815 Pending application for alteration of registered mark 178. An application under section 44 of the repealed Act which is pending on the commencement of this Act shall be dealt with under the repealed Act and any necessary alteration shall be made to the Register in this Act. Revocation for non-use 179. (1) An application under section 46 of the repealed Act which is pending on the commencement of this Act shall be dealt with under the repealed Act and any necessary alteration shall be made to the Register in this Act. (2) An application under section 46 of this Act may be made in relation to an existing registered mark after the commencement of this Act. (3) Notwithstanding subsection (2), the application for the revocation of the registration of an existing registered mark registered under section 57 of the repealed Act may only be made five years after the commencement of this Act. Application for rectification, etc. 180. (1) An application under section 43 or 45 of the repealed Act which is pending on the commencement of this Act shall be dealt with under the repealed Act and any necessary alteration shall be made to the Register in this Act. (2) For the purposes of proceedings under section 47 of this Act as it applies in relation to an existing registered mark, the provisions of this Act shall be deemed to have been in force at all material times, except there is no objection to the validity of the registration of an existing registered mark may be taken on the ground specified in subsection 24(3) of this Act. Rules as to use of certification mark 181. (1) Rules governing the use of an existing registered certification trademark deposited at the Trade Mark Central Office 

Trademarks 141 pursuant to section 56 of the repealed Act shall be treated after the commencement of this Act as if it is filed in accordance with the Second Schedule to this Act. (2) Any request for amendment of the rules which was pending on the commencement of this Act shall be dealt with in accordance with this Act. Agents 182. (1) Registration of an agent applied under the repealed Act before the commencement of this Act shall continue to be in force and have effect as if made under section 97 of this Act and if registered, the agent shall be treated as a registered trademark agent under this Act. (2) The requirements for renewal of registration of trademark agents under this Act shall apply to the registration of the agent obtained under the repealed Act. Guidelines, etc., on transitional matters 183. The Registrar may issue guidelines or practice directions to provide for any matters in force before the commencement of this Act to be dealt with in such manner to bring them in conformity with this Act. FIRST SCHEDULE [Section 72] COLLECTIVE MARKS Interpretation 1. In this Schedule — “association” means an organization duly registered in accordance with the laws of its incorporation but not incorporated in accordance with the laws relating to companies, and includes club, trade union and society incorporated accordingly. 

142 Laws of Malaysia ACT 815 Signs of which a collective mark may consist 2. In relation to a collective mark, the reference in the definition of a trademark under section 3 as to distinguishing goods or services of one undertaking from those of other undertakings shall be construed as a reference to distinguishing goods or services of members of association which is the proprietor of the collective mark from those of other undertakings. Collective mark consisting of geographical indication 3. (1) Notwithstanding paragraphs 23(1) (c), 23(4) (a) and 23(4) (b), a collective mark which consists of geographical indication may be registered by the Registrar as a collective mark to designate the geographical origin of the goods or services unless⸺ (a) the collective mark consists exclusively of an indication which is identical with the term customary in the common language as the common name of any goods or services in Malaysia and registration of the collective mark consisting of geographical indication is sought in relation to those goods or services; (b) the collective mark is not or has ceased to be protected in its country or territory of origin; (c) the goods or services does not originate in the country, re gion or locality indicated in subsubparagraph 5(3)(a); or (d) the use of the collective mark in relation to the goods or services is of such a nature as to mislead the public as to the true place of origin of the goods or services. (2) Notwithstanding s ubparagraph (1), a collective mark consisting of geographical indication shall not be registered by the Registrar if⸺ (a) the collective mark contain or consists of a geographical indication which is registered, or in respect of which an application for registration has been made, under the Geographical Indications Act 2022 [Act 836] or any previous written law relating to geographical indications before the date of the application for registration of the collective mark; and (b) the goods for which the collective mark is sought to be registered⸺ (i) is identical with or similar to the goods for which the geographical indication is registered or for which registration of the geographical indication is sought; and (ii) does not originate in the place indi cated by the geographical indication. 

Trademarks 143 (3) Subparagraph (2) shall apply whether or not the collective mark consisting of geographical indication contains or is accompanied by, irrespective of the language which the geographical indication is expressed in the collective mark⸺ (a) an indication of the true geographical origin of the goods; or (b) an expression such as “kind’, “type”, “style”, “imitation” or any similar word or expression. (4) Notwithstanding subparagraph (2), a collective mark may be registered by the Registrar if the application for the registration of the collective mark had been made in good faith or the collective mark had been used continuously in good faith in the course of trade by the applicant or his predecessor in title, either⸺ (a) before the date of application for registration of the geographical indication in question in Malaysia; or (b) before the geographical indication in question is protected in its country of origin. (5) Where an application of a collective mark cont ains or consists of a geographical indication in respect of wine or spirit and the collective mark is used or intended to be used in relation to a wine or spirit not originating from the place indicated in the geographical indication, the collective mark s hall not be registered by the Registrar, even if the true origin of the wine or spirit is indicated or the geographical indication is used in the translation or accompanied by any expression such as “kind” , “type”, “style”, “imitation” or any similar word or expression, irrespective of the language the geographical indication is expressed in the collective mark. (6) Notwithstanding subparagraph (5), a collective mark that contains or consists of a geographical indication in respect of wine or spirit may b e registered by the Registrar if⸺ (a) the application for the registration of the collective mark had been made in good faith or the collective mark had been used continuously in good faith in the course of trade by the applicant or his predecessor in title, either⸺ (i) before the commencement of the Geographical Indications Act 2022 or any previous written law relating to geographical indications; or (ii) before the geographical indication in question is protected in its country of origin; or (b) the application for the registration of the collective mark contain or consists of a geographical indication if the geographical indication in question⸺ 

144 Laws of Malaysia ACT 815 (i) has ceased to be protected in its country of origin; or (ii) has fallen into disuse in its country of origin. (7) The registered proprietor of such a collective mark under subparagraph (1) is not entitled to prohibit the use of the signs or indications of geographical origin in accordance with honest practices in industrial or commercial matters includin g by a person who is entitled to use a geographical name, provided the use is by the person carrying out their activity in the geographical area specified in the Register which shall be in respect of the goods or services specified in the Register in accordance to the quality, reputation or characteristic specified in the Register. Collective mark not to be misleading as to character or significance 4. (1) A collective mark shall not be registered if the public is likely to be misled as regards to the character or significance of the collective mark, in particular if it is likely to be taken to be something other than a collective mark. (2) For the purposes of subparagraph (1), the Registrar may require that a collective mark in respect of which appli cation is made for registration include some indication that it is a collective mark. (3) Notwithstanding subsection 33(3), an application may be amended so as to comply with any other requirement. Rules governing the use of collective mark 5. (1) In addition to the requirements under section 17, an applicant of a collective mark shall file the rules governing the use of the collective mark with the Registrar. (2) The rules under subparagraph (1) shall specify — (a) the persons authorized to use the collective mark; (b) the conditions of membership of the association; (c) the conditions of use of the collective mark, if any; and (d) any sanctions against misuse of the collective mark, if any. (3) In addition to subparagraph (2), if the application of collective mark consis ts of geographical indications under subparagraph 3(1), the applicant shall file the rules which specify — (a) that country, region or locality where the goods or services originated from; 

Trademarks 145 (b) the quality, reputation or other characteristic of the goods or servic es which is essentially attributable to its geographical origin; (c) the existing protection or registration of geographical indication in the country, region or locality of origin; and (d) the use of the geographical indication in the country, region or localit y of origin. (4) For the purposes of subparagraphs (2) and (3), the Registrar may require further requirements to be specified in the rules as he thinks fit. Approval of rules and application for registration of collective mark 6. (1) A collective mark shall not be registered unless the rules governing the use of the collective mark— (a) specify all the requirements contained in subparagraphs 5(2), (3) and (4); (b) are not contrary to public interest or morality; (c) do not contain or consist of any scandalous or offensive matter or would otherwise not be entitled to protection by any court of law; and (d) do not contain a matter which is in the opinion of the Registrar is or might be prejudicial to the interest or security of the nation. (2) The applicant shall file the rules under paragraph 5 with the Registrar within the period as prescribed and if the applicant does not do so, the application for registration of collective mark shall be deemed withdrawn. (3) The Registrar shall consider whether the requirements under subparagraph (1) are fulfilled. (4) If it appears to the Registrar that the requirements under subparagraph (1) are not fulfilled, he shall inform the applicant and give him an opportunity within the period as determined by the Registrar, to make representat ions or to file amended rules. (5) If the applicant responds within the period as determined by the Registrar but fails to satisfy the Registrar that the requirement under subparagraph (1) are fulfilled, or to file rules that has been amended so as to meet those requirements, the Registrar may refuse the application for registration of collective mark. (6) If the applicant fails to respond within the specified period, the application for registration of collective mark shall be deemed withdrawn. 

146 Laws of Malaysia ACT 815 (7) If it appears to the Registrar the requirements under subparagraph (1) and requirements for registration under Part IV, are met, he shall accept the application and shall proceed in accordance with sections 31 and 35. (8) The rules shall be published in accordance with section 31 and notice of opposition may be given relating to the matters under subparagraph (1), in addition to any other grounds on which the application may be opposed. Grounds of opposition for registration of collective mark consisting of geographical indication 6A. (1) In addition to the grounds of opposition under section 34, the registration of a collective mark consisting of geographical indication may be opposed by any interested person⸺ (a) on any ground under subparagraph 3(1), 3(2) or 3(5); or (b) if the geographical indication has fallen into disuse in its country of origin. (2) For the purposes of subparagraph (1), “interested person” has the meaning assigned to it under the Geographical Indications Act 2022. Inspection of rules 7. The rules governing the use of a registered collective mark shall be open to public inspection in the same way as the Register under section 15. Amendment of rules of registered collective mark 8. (1) An amendment of the rules governing the use of a registered collective mark is not effective unless the amended rules are filed with the Registrar in the form as determined by the Registrar together with the payment of the prescribed fee. (2) The Registrar shall, after considering the requirement under subparagraph (1), cause the amended rules to be accepted and published in the Intellectual Property Official Journal. (3) Any person may file a notice of opposition relating to the matters under subparagraph 6(1) in the form as determined by the Registrar within the prescribed period after the amended rules has been published in the Intellectual Property Official Journal under subparagraph (2). Infringement of collective mark consisting of geographical indication 8A. Notwithstanding subparagraph 55(1)(b)(i) on geographical origin, a registered proprietor of collective mark consisting of geographical indication may institute any 

Trademarks 147 proceedings for infringement under section 56 of the Act for acts amounting to infringement under section 54 of the Act subject to subparagraph 3(7) and paragraph 10. Rights of authorized users relating to infringement proceedings 9. (1) The following provisions shall apply in relation to an authorized user of a registered collective mark as in relation to a licensee of a trademark: (a) subsection 54(4); (b) subsection 60(2); (c) section 70; and (d) section 87. (2) In infringement proceedings brought by the registered proprietor of a collective mark, any loss suffered or likely to be suffered by authorized users shall be taken into account and the Court may give such directions as it thinks fit as to the extent to which the plaintiff is to hold the proceeds of any pecuniary remedy on behalf of such users. Renewal and restoration of registered collective mark consisting of geogra phical indication 9A. In addition to the requirements under section 39, the Registrar may require additional particulars in the manner as prescribed for the purposes of renewing or restoring removed registration of collective mark consisting of geographic al indication and shall refuse to renew or restore the registration if the registered proprietor does not furnish the additional particulars required. Limitation on rights given by registered collective mark 10. (1) A member of an association in whose name a collective mark is registered does not have the right to prevent another member of the association from using the collective mark in accordance with the rules of association. (2) A registered proprietor of collective mark consisting of geographical indication does not have the right ⸺ (a) to prevent any use in the course of trade any individual component contained in the collective mark consisting of geographical indication where the individual component is identical to a term customary in the common language as the common name of any goods or services in Malaysia; or (b) to institute any proceedings for infringement against the lawful use of a registered geographical indication registered under the Geographical 

148 Laws of Malaysia ACT 815 Indications Act 2022 or any previous wri tten law relating to geographical indications. Grounds for revocation of registration 11. In addition to the grounds of revocation provided for in sections 45 and 46, the registration of a collective mark may be revoked by the Court on the ground — (a) that the manner in which the collective mark has been used by the proprietor has caused it to become liable to mislead the public in the manner referred to in subparagraph 4(1); (b) that the proprietor does not observe, or to secure the observance of, the rules governing the use of the collective mark; or (c) that an amendment of the rules filed by the registered proprietor — (i) no longer complies with subparagraphs 5(2), (3) and (4); (ii) is contrary to public interest or morality; (iii) contain or consist of any scandalous or offensive matter or would otherwise not be entitled to protection by any court of law; or (iv) contain a matter which is in the opinion of the Registrar is or might be prejudicial to public interest or security of the countr y. Grounds of invalidity for registration of collective mark 12. (1) In addition to the grounds of invalidity under section 47⸺ (a) the registration of a collective mark may be declared invalid by the Court on the ground that the collective mark was registered in breach of subparagraph 4(1) or 6(1); (b) the registratio n of a collective mark consisting of geographical indication may be declared invalid by the Court on the following grounds: (i) the collective mark was registered in breach of subparagraph 3(1), 3(2), 3(5) or paragraph 6 A; (ii) the collective mark has fa llen into disuse or has ceased to be protected in its country or territory of origin; (iii) there has been a failure by a registered proprietor to maintain, in Malaysia, any commercial activity or interest in relation to 

Trademarks 149 the collective mark, including commercialisation, promotion or market monitoring; or (iv) in consequence of the failure to maintain any commercial activity or interest in relation to the collective mark, including commercialisation, promotion or market monitoring in Malaysia by any intere sted person of goods identified by the registered collective mark, the geographical indication has become the common name of those goods in Malaysia. (2) For the purposes of subparagraph (1), “interested person” has the meaning assigned to it under the Geographical Indications Act 2022. SECOND SCHEDULE [Section 73] CERTIFICATION MARKS Signs of which a certification mark may consist 1. In relation to a certification mark, the definition of trademark under section 3 as to distinguishing goods or services of one undertaking from those of other undertakings shall be construed as a reference to distinguishing goods or services which are certified from those which are not. Certification mark consisting of geographical indication 2. (1) Notwithstanding para graphs 23(1) (c), 23(4) (a) and 23(4) (b), a certification mark which consists of geographical indication may be registered by the Registrar as a certification mark to designate the geographical origin of the goods or services unless⸺ (a) the certification m ark consists exclusively of an indication which is identical with the term customary in the common language as the common name of any goods or services in Malaysia and registration of the certification mark consisting of geographical indication is sought i n relation to those goods or services; (b) the certification mark is not or has ceased to be protected in its country or territory of origin; (c) the goods or services does not originate in the country, region or locality indicated in subsubparagraph 5(3 )(a); or (d) the use of the certification mark in relation to the goods or services is of such a nature as to mislead the public as to the true place of origin of the goods or services. 

150 Laws of Malaysia ACT 815 (2) Notwithstanding subparagraph (1), a certification mark consistin g of geographical indication shall not be registered by the Registrar if⸺ (a) the certification mark contains or consists of a geographical indication which is registered, or in respect of which an application for registration has been made, under the Geo graphical Indications Act 2022 or any previous written law relating to geographical indications before the date of application for registration of the certification mark; and (b) the goods for which the certification mark is sought to be registered⸺ (i) is identical with or similar to the goods for which the geographical indication is registered or for which registration of the geographical indication is sought; and (ii) does not originate in the place indicated by the geographical indication. (3) Subparagraph (2) shall apply whether or not the certification mark consisting of geographical indication contains or is accompanied by, irrespective of the language which the geographical indication is expressed in the certification mark⸺ (a) an indication of the true ge ographical origin of the goods; or (b) an expression such as “kind”, “type”, “style”, “imitation” or any similar word or expression. (4) Notwithstanding subparagraph (2), a certification mark may be registered by the Registrar if the application for the registration of the certification mark had been made in good faith or the certi fication mark had been used continuou sly in good faith in the course of trade by the applicant or his predecessor in title, either⸺ (a) before the date of application for registration of the geographical indication in question in Malaysia; or (b) before the geographical indication in questi on is protected in its country of origin. (5) Where an application of a certification mark contains or consists of a geographical indication in respect of wine or spirit and the certification mark is used or intended to be used in relation to a wine and spirit nor originating f rom the place indicated in the geographical indication, the certification mark shall not be registered by the Registrar, even if the true origin of the wine or spirit is indicated or the geographical indication is used in the transl ation or accompanied by any expression such as “kind”, “type”, “style”, “imitation” or any similar word 

Trademarks 151 or expression, irrespective of the language the geographical indication is expressed in the certification mark. (6) Notwithstanding subparagraph (5), a certification mark that contains or consists of a geographical ind ication in respect of wine or spirit may be registered by the Registrar if⸺ (a) the application for the registration of the certification mark had been made in good faith or the certification mark had been used continuously in good faith in the course of trade by the applicant or his predecessor in title, either⸺ (i) before the commencement of the Geographical Indication Act 2022 or any previous written law relating to geographical indications; or (ii) before the geographical indication in question is pr otected in its country of origin; or (b) the application for the registration of the certification mark contains or consists of a geographical indication in question⸺ (i) has ceased to be protected in its country of origin; or (ii) has fallen into disus e in its country of origin. (7) The registered proprietor of such a certification mark under subparagraph (1) is not entitled to prohibit the use of the signs or indications of geographical origin in accordance with honest practices in industrial or commercial matters, provided the use is by the person carrying their activity in the geographical area specified in the Register which shall be in respect of the goods or services specified in the Register in accordance to the quality, reputation or characteristic specified in the Register. Nature of proprietor’s business 3. A certification mark shall not be registered if the proprietor carries on a business involving supply of goods or services of which the registered proprietor certifies . Certification mark not to be misleading as to character or significance 4. (1) A certification mark shall not be registered if the public is likely to be misled as regards to the character or significance of the certification mark, including if it is likely to be taken to be something other than a certification mark. (2) For the purposes of subparagraph (1), the Registrar may require that a 

152 Laws of Malaysia ACT 815 certification mark in respect of which an application is made for registration include some indication that it is a certification mark. (3) Notwithstanding subsection 33(3), an application may be amended so as to comply with any such requirement. Rules governing the use of certification mark 5. (1) In addition to the requirements under section 17, an applicant of a certification mark shall file the rules governing the use of the certification mark with the Registrar. (2) The rules under subparagraph (1) shall specify — (a) the persons authorized to use the certification mark; (b) the characteristics to be certified by the certification mark; (c) how the proprietor is to test those characteristics; (d) how the proprietor supervise the use of the certification mark; and (e) the procedures for resolving disputes between the proprietor and authorized user. (3) In addition to subparagraph (2), if the application of certification mark consists of geographical indications in subparagraph 2(1), the applicant shall file the rules which specify — (a) the country, region or locality where the goods or services originated from; (b) the quality, reputation or other characteristic of the goods or services which is essentially attributable to its geographical origin; (c) the existing protection or registration of geographical indication in the country, region or locality of origin; and (d) the use of the geographical indication in the country, region or locality of origin. (4) For the purposes of subparagraphs (2) and (3), the Registrar may require further requirements to be specified in the rules as he thinks fit. Approval of rules and application for registration of certification mark 6. (1) A certification mark shall not be registered unless — 

Trademarks 153 (a) the rules governing the use of the certification mark— (i ) specify all the requirements contained in subparagraphs 5(2), (3) and (4); (i i ) are not contrary to public intere st or morality; (i ii ) do not contain or consist of any scandalous or offensive matter or would otherwise not be entitled to protection by any court of law; and (iv ) do not contain a matter which is in the opinion of the Registrar is or might be prejudicial to public interest or security of the country; and (b) the applicant is competent to certify the goods or services for which the certification mark is to be registered. (2) The applicant shall file the rules under paragraph 5 with the Registrar within the period as prescribed and if the applicant does not do so, the application for registration of certification mark shall be deemed withdrawn. (3) The Registrar shall consider whether the requirements under subparagraph (1) are fulfilled. (4) If it appears to the Registrar tha t the requirements under subparagraph (1) are not fulfilled, he shall inform the applicant and give him an opportunity within the period as determined by the Registrar, to make representations or to file amended rules. (5) If the applicant responds within the period as determined by the Registrar but fails to satisfy the Registrar that the requirement under subparagraph (1) are fulfilled, or to file rules that has been amended so as to meet those requirements, the Registrar may refuse the application for registration of certification mark. (6) If the applicant fails to respond within the specified period, the application for registration of certification mark shall be deemed withdrawn. (7) If it appears to the Registrar the requirements under subparagraph (1) and requirements for registration under Part IV, are met, he shall accept the application and shall proceed in accordance with sections 31 and 35. (8) The rules shall be published in accordance with section 31 and notice of opposition may be given relating to the matters under subparagraph (1), in addition to any other grounds on which the application may be opposed. Grounds of opposition for registration of certification mark consisting of geographical indication 6A. (1) In addition to the grounds of opposition under section 34, the registration of a certification mark consisting of geographical indication may be opposed by any interested person⸺ 

154 Laws of Malaysia ACT 815 (a) on any ground under subparagraph 2(1), 2(2) or 2(5); or (b) if the geographical indication has fallen into d isuse in its country of origin. (2) For the purposes of subparagraph (1), “interested person” has the meaning assigned to it under the Geographical Indications Act 2022. Inspection of rules 7. The rules governing the use of a registered certification mark shall be open to public inspection in the same way as the Register under section 15. Amendment of rules of registered certification mark 8. (1) An amendment of the rules governing the use of a registered certification mark is not effective unless the amended rules are filed with the Registrar in the form as determined by the Registrar together with the payment of the prescribed fee. (2) The Registrar shall, after considering the requirement under subparagraph (1), cause the amended rules to be accepte d and published in the Intellectual Property Official Journal. (3) Any person may file a notice of opposition relating to the matters under subparagraph 6(1) in the form as determined by the Registrar within the prescribed period after the amended rules are published in the Intellectual Property Official Journal under subparagraph (2). Consent to assignment of registered certification mark 9. The assignment or other transmission of a registered certification mark shall not be effective without the consent of the Registrar. Infringement of certification mark consisting of geographical indication 9A. Notwithstanding subparagraph 55(1) (b)(i) on geographical origin, a registered proprietor of certification mark consisting of geographical indication may insti tute any proceedings for infringement under section 56 of the Act for acts amounting to infringement provided under section 54 of the Act subject to subparagraph 2(7) and paragraph 10 B. Rights of authorized users relating to infringement proceedings 10. (1) The following provisions shall apply in relation to an authorized user of a registered certification mark as in relation to a licensee of a trademark: (a) subsection 54(4); 

Trademarks 155 (b) subsection 60(2); and (c) section 87. (2) In infringement proceedings brought by the registered proprietor of a certification mark, any loss suffered or likely to be suffered by authorized users shall be taken into account and the Court may give such directions as it thinks fit as to the extent to which the plaintiff is to hold the proceeds of any pecuniary remedy on behalf of such users. Renewal and restoration of registered certification mark consisting of geographical indication 10A. In addition to the requirements under section 39, the Registrar may require additional particulars in the manner as prescribed for the purposes of renewing or restoring removed registration of certification mark consisting of geographical indication and shall refuse to renew or restore the registration if the registered proprietor does not furnish the additional particulars required. Limitation on rights given by registered certification marks 10B. A registered proprietor of certification mark consisting of geographical indication does not have the right⸺ (a) to prevent any use in the course of trade any individual component contained in the certification mark consisting of geographical indication where the individual com ponent is identical to a term customary in the common language as the common name of any goods or services in Malaysia; or (b) to institute any proceedings for infringement against the lawful use of a registered geographical indication registered under the Geographical Indications Act 2022 or any previous written law relating to geographical indications. Grounds for revocation of registration 11. In addition to the grounds of revocation provided for in sections 45 and 46, the registration of a certificati on mark may be revoked by the Court on the ground — (a) that the registered proprietor has begun to carry on such a business under paragraph 3; (b) that the manner in which the certification mark has been used by the registered proprietor has caused it to mislead the public in the manner referred to in subparagraph 4(1); 

156 Laws of Malaysia ACT 815 (c) that the registered proprietor has failed to observe, or to secure the observance of, the rules governing the use of the certification mark; (d) that an amendment of the rules filed by the registered proprietor — (i ) no longer complies with subparagraphs 5(2), (3) and (4); (i i ) contrary to public interest or morality; (i ii ) contain or consist of any scandalous or offensive matter or would otherwise not be entitled to protection by any court of law; or (iv ) contai n a matter which is in the opinion of the Registrar is or might be prejudicial to public interest or security of the country; or (e) that the registered proprietor is no longer competent to certify the goods or services for which the certification mark is registered. Grounds of invalidity for registration of certification mark 12. (1) In addition to the grounds of invalidity under section 47⸺ (a) the registration of a certification mark may be declared invalid by the Court on the ground that the certification mark was registered in breach of subparagraph 4(1) or 6(1); (b) the registration of a certification mark consisting of geographical indication may be declared invalid by the Court on the following grounds: (i) the certification mark was registe red in breach of subparagraph 2(1), 2(2), 2(5) or paragraph 6 A; (ii) the certification mark has fallen into disuse or has ceased to be protected in its country or territory of origin; (iii) there has been a failure by a registered proprietor to maintain, in Malaysia, any commercial activity or interest in relation to the certification mark, including commercialisation, promotion or market monitoring; or (iv) in consequence of the failure to maintain any commercial activity or interest in relation to the certification mark, including commercialisation, promotion or market monitoring in Malaysia by any interested person of goods identified by the 

Trademarks 157 registered certification mark, the geographical indication has become the common name of those goods in Malaysia. (2) For the purposes of subparag raph (1), “interested person” has the meaning assigned to it under the Geographical Indications Act 2022. 

158 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 815 TRADEMARKS ACT 2019 LIST OF AMENDMENTS Amending law Short Title In force from P.U. (A) 66/2022 Trademarks (Amendment of First and Second Schedules) Order 2022 182022 

159 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 815 TRADEMARKS ACT 2019 LIST OF SECTIONS AMENDED Section Amending authority In force from First Schedule P.U. (A) 66/2022 182022 Second Schedule P.U. (A) 66/2022 182022