LAWS OF MALAYSIA ONLINE VERSION OF UPDATED TEXT OF REPRINT Act 787 OFFENCES RELATING TO AWARDS ACT 2017 As at 26 June 2024 This text is ONLY AN UPDATED TEXT of the Offences Relating To Awards Act 2017 by the Attorney Gene ral’s Chambers, Unless and until reprinted pursuant to the powers of the Commissioner of Law Revision under subsection 14(1) of the Revision of Laws Act 1968 [Act 1], this text is NOT AN AUTHENTIC TEXT . 

2 OFFENCES RELATING TO AWARDS ACT 2017 Date of Royal Assent … … … … 3 February 2017 Date of publication in the Gazette … … 10 February 2017 Latest amendment made by P.U. (A) 169/2024 which came into operation on … … … … … 26 June 2024 

3 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 787 OFFENCES RELATING TO AWARDS ACT 2017 ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS PART I PRELIMINARY Section 1. Short title, commencement and application 2. Interpretation PART II YANG DI-PERTUAN AGONG AWARD 3. Receiving and using unrecognized award 4. Attending, etc., investiture for unrecognized award 5. Making, etc., of insignias for unrecognized awards 6. Making, etc., instrument for making insignias for unrecognized awards 7. Possession of instrument or material for the purpose of u sing the same for making of insignias for unrecognized awards 8. Representing as holder of Yang di-Pertuan Agong award 9. Using revoked or withdrawn Yang di-Pertuan Agong award 10. Using Yang di-Pertuan Agong award when not entitled PART III FOREIGN AWARD 11. Receiving foreign award from Head of State 12. Receiving and using unrecognized foreign award 

4 Laws of Malaysia ACT 787 PART IV GRATIFICATION Section 13. Soliciting, receiving, giving, etc., gratification for unrecognized award 14. Soliciting, rece iving, giving, etc., gratification for investiture for unrecognized award 15. Soliciting, receiving, giving, etc., gratification for award 16. Soliciting, receiving, giving, etc., gratification for unrecognized foreign award PART V MISCELLANEOUS 17. Offences under State law committed outside State territory 18. Power to make regulations 19. Power to amend Schedules FIRST SCHEDULE SECOND SCHEDULE 

5 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 787 OFFENCES RELATING TO AWARDS ACT 2017 An Act to provide for offences relating to awards and the extra-territorial application of this Act and for connected matters. [25 October 2017; P.U. (B) 509/2017] ENACTED by the Parliament of Malaysia as follows: PART I PRELIMINARY Short title, commencement and application 1. (1) This Act may be cited as the Offences relating to Awards Act 2017. (2) This Act comes into operation on a date to be appointed by the Minister by notification in the Gazette. (3) This Act and its subsidiary legislatio n shall apply both within and outside Malaysia. Interpretation 2. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires— “foreign award” means a valid Order, Decoration and Medal awarded by a Head of State in the First Schedule; 

6 Laws of Malaysia ACT 787 “unrecognized foreign aw ard” means a foreign award other than those awarded by a Head of State in the First Schedule; “unrecognized award” means an award purporting to be a Yang di -Pertuan Agong award conferred by any person other than the Yang di -Pertuan Agong; “Yang di-Pertuan Agong award” means a valid Order, Decoration and Medal instituted by the statutes of the Yang di-Pertuan Agong for the purposes of the Federation and the Federal Territories; “investiture” means the conferment of the Yang di-Pertuan Agong award on a particular person by the Yang di-Pertuan Agong; “insignia” means― (a) the collar, riband, badge of the order, badge of the collar, star of the order and badge of the neck; (b) the ribbon, badge and emblem of the decoration; or (c) the ribbon and medal; “Ruler” and “Yang di-Pertua Negeri” have the meanings assigned to them in Clause (2) of Article 160 of the Federal Constitution; “gratification” has the meaning assigned to it in section 3 of the Malaysian Anti-Corruption Commission Act [Act 694]. PART II YANG DI-PERTUAN AGONG AWARD Receiving and using unrecognized award 3. (1) A person shall not receive an unrecognized award from any person whether within or outside Malaysia. (2) A person shall not use and enjoy the appellation and style of an unrecognized award in any form and manner. 

 Offences relating to Awards 7 (3) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) or (2) commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to imprisonment for a term not exceeding three years. ILLUSTRATION A receives an unrecognized award in 2010 that carries an appellation and style that A has been using since 2010. Upon the coming into operation of this Act, A is prohibited from using the appellation and style. A uses the appellation and style after the coming into operation of this Act. A commits an offence. Attending, etc., investiture for unrecognized award 4. (1) A person shall not conduct an investiture ceremony for an unrecognized award. (2) A person shall not attend, promote or participate in an investiture ceremony for an unrecognized award. (3) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) or (2) commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding ten thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding three years or to both. Making, etc., of insignias for unrecognized awards 5. (1) A person shall not make, or knowingly perform any part of the process of making of, insignias for unrecognized awards. (2) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) commits an offence and shall, on convi ction, be liable to a fine not exceeding ten thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding three years or to both. 

8 Laws of Malaysia ACT 787 Making, etc., instrument for making insignias for unrecognized awards 6. (1) A person shall not make or mend, or perform any part of the process of making or mending, or buy, sell, or dispose of any die or instrument for the purpose of being used, or knowing or having reason to believe that it is intended to be used, for the purpose of making insignias for unrecognized awards. (2) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding ten thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding three years or to both. Possession of instrument or ma terial for the purpose of using the same for making of insignias for unrecognized awards 7. (1) A person shall not be in possession of any instrument or material for the purpose of using the same for making of insignias for unrecognized awards, or knowing or having reason to believe that the same is intended to be used for that purpose. (2) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding ten thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding three years or to both. Representing as holder of Yang di-Pertuan Agong award 8. (1) A person shall not represent himself as a valid holder of any Yang di-Pertuan Agong award if he was never conferred such award. (2) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to imprisonment for a term not exceeding three years. 

 Offences relating to Awards 9 Using revoked or withdrawn Yang di-Pertuan Agong award 9. (1) A person shall not use and enjoy the appellation and style of any Yang di -Pertuan Agong award that has been revoked or withdrawn by the Yang di-Pertuan Agong. (2) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to imprisonment for a term not exceeding three years. Using Yang di-Pertuan Agong award when not entitled 10. (1) A person shall not use and enjoy the appellation and style of any Yang di-Pertuan Agong award in any form and manner if he is not entitle d to use and enjoy such appellation and style under the statutes instituting the award. (2) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding ten thousand ringgit. ILLUSTRATIONS (a) A, is a holder of a Yang di -Pertuan Agong award who is married to Z. Z is entitled to use and enjoy the appellation and style of such award during her marriage to A. A and Z are now divorced and Z continues to use and enjoy the appellation and style of such award. Z commits an offence. (b) A, is a holder of a Yang di-Pertuan Agong award who is married to Z. Z is entitled to use and enjoy the appellation and style of such award during her marriage to A and after the death of A. After A died, Z subsequently remarried. Z continues to use and enjoy the appellation and style of such award. Z commits an offence. 

10 Laws of Malaysia ACT 787 PART III FOREIGN AWARD Receiving foreign award from Head of State 11. (1) A citizen may only receive a foreign award from a Head of State in the First Schedule. (2) A citizen except the Rulers and their Consorts and the Yang di -Pertua Negeri and their Consorts shall obtain the written permission of the Yang di -Pertuan Agong before receiving any foreign award. (3) A citizen shall not use and enjoy the appellation and style of the foreign award received in any form and manner within Malaysia. (4) Notwithstanding subsection (3), a citizen who receives any foreign award― (a) for gallantry or substantial services rendered by the citizen to the awarding country may wear the foreign award received on all appropriate occasions within Malaysia; or (b) as a mark of courtesy may only wear the foreign award received on any occasion held in Malaysia by a recognized representative of the awarding country and the wearing of such foreign award is required for the occasion. (5) Any person who contravenes subsection (2) or (3) commits an offence and shall, on conviction be liable, to a fine not exceeding five hundred thousand ringgit. Receiving and using unrecognized foreign award 12. (1) A citizen shall not receive an unrecognized foreign award from any person whether within or outside Malaysia. 

 Offences relating to Awards 11 (2) A citizen shall not use and enjoy the appellation and style of an unrecognized foreign award in any form and manner. (3) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) or (2) commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to imprisonment for a term not exceeding three years. ILLUSTRATION A receives an unrecognized foreign award in 2010 that carries an appellation and style that A has been using since 2010. Upon the coming into operation of this Act, A is prohibited from using the appellation and style. A uses the appellation and style after the coming into operation of this Act. A commits an offence. PART IV GRATIFICATION Soliciting, receiving, giving, etc., gratification for unrecognized award 13. (1) A person by himself, or by or in conjunction with any other person― (a) shall not solicit, receive or agree to receive for himself or for any other person; or (b) shall not give, promise or offer to any person whether for the benefit of that person or of another person, any gratification as a consideration or an inducement o r a reward for procuring or assisting or endeavouring to procure the grant of an unrecognized award to any person in connection of such grant. (2) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to imprisonment for a term not exceeding twenty years. 

12 Laws of Malaysia ACT 787 (3) For the purpose of this section, “unrecognized award” includes an award purporting to be a valid Order, Decoration and Medal instituted by the statutes of a Ruler or Yang di-Pertua Negeri conferred by any person other than a Ruler or Yang di-Pertua Negeri. Soliciting, receiving, giving, etc., gratification for investiture for unrecognized award 14. (1) A person by himself, or by or in conjunction with any other person― (a) shall not solicit, receive o r agree to receive for himself or for any other person; or (b) shall not give, promise or offer to any person whether for the benefit of that person or of another person, any gratification as a consideration or an inducement or a reward for procuring or ass isting or endeavouring to procure an investiture for an unrecognized award to any person in connection with such investiture. (2) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to imprisonment for a term not exceeding twenty years. (3) For the purpose of this section, “unrecognized award” includes an award purporting to be a valid Order, Decoration and Medal instituted by the statutes of a Ruler or Yang di-Pertua Negeri conferred by any person other than a Ruler or Yang di-Pertua Negeri. Soliciting, receiving, giving, etc., gratification for award 15. (1) A person by himself, or by or in conjunction with any other person― (a) shall not solicit, receive or agree to receive for himself or for any other person; or 

 Offences relating to Awards 13 (b) shall not give, promise or offer to any person whether for the benefit of that person or of another person, any gratification as a consideration or an inducement o r a reward for procuring or assisting or endeavouring to procure the grant of any award to any person in connection with such grant. (2) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to imprisonment for a term not exceeding twenty years. (3) For the purpose of this section, “award” means the Yang di-Pertuan Agong award or a valid Order, Decoration and Medal instituted by the statutes of a Ruler or Yang di-Pertua Negeri. Soliciting, receiving, givin g, etc., gratification for unrecognized foreign award 16. (1) A citizen by himself, or by or in conjunction with any other person― (a) shall not solicit, receive or agree to receive for himself or for any other person; or (b) shall not give, promise or offer to any person whether for the benefit of that person or of another person, any gratification as a consideration or an inducement or a reward for procuring or assisting or endeavouring to procure the grant of an unrecognized foreign award to any citizen in connection with such grant. (2) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to imprisonment for a term not exceeding twenty years. 

14 Laws of Malaysia ACT 787 PART V MISCELLANEOUS Offences under State law committed outside State territory 17. Any person who contravenes any provision of a State law specified in the Second Schedule outside the territory of that State commits an offence under this Act and shall, on conviction, be liable to the penalty provided under the State law. Power to make regulations 18. The Minister may make regulations as may be necessary or expedient for giving full effect to or for carrying out the provisions of this Act. Power to amend Schedules 19. The Yang di-Pertuan Agong may, by order published in the Gazette, amend the First Schedule, and upon request of a Ruler or Yang di-Pertua Negeri amend the Second Schedule. FIRST SCHEDULE [Section 11] Head of State Country Head of State Afghanistan President of the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan Albania President of the Republic of Albania Algeria Président de la République algérienne démocratique et populaire 

 Offences relating to Awards 15 Country Head of State Andorra Co-Princes de la Principauté d’ Andorre Angola President of the Repu blic of Angola President of the Popular Movement for the Liberation of Angola (MPLA) Antigua and Barbuda Governor-General of Antigua and Barbuda Argentina Presidente de la República Argentina Armenia President of the Republic of Armenia Australia Governor-General of the Commonwealth of Australia Austria Federal President of the Republic of Austria Azerbaijan President of the Republic of Azerbaijan Bahamas Governor-General of the Commonwealth of the Bahamas Bahrain King of the Kingdom of Bahrain Bangladesh President of the People’s Republic of Bangladesh Barbados Governor-General of Barbados Belarus President of the Republic of Belarus Belgium Roi des Belges Belize Governor-General of Belize Benin Président de la République du Bénin Bhutan King of Bhutan Bolivia (Plurinational State of) Presidente Constitucional del Estado Plurinacional de Bolivia 

16 Laws of Malaysia ACT 787 Country Head of State Bosnia and Herzegovina Chairman of the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina Botswana President of the Republic of Botswana Brazil President of the Federative Republic of Brazil Brunei Darussalam Sultan and Yang Di -Pertuan of Negara Brunei Darussalam Bulgaria President of the Republic of Bulgaria Burkina Faso Président du Faso, Président du Conseil des Ministres Burundi Président de la République du Burundi Cabo Verde Président de la République de Cabo Verde Cambodia King of Cambodia Cameroon Président de la République du Cameroun Canada Governor-General and Commander-in-Chief of Canada Central African Republic Chef de l’Etat de la République centrafricaine Chad Président de la République du Tchad, Chef de l’Etat, Chef du Gouvernement Chile Presidente de la República de Chile China President of the People’s Republic of China Columbia Presidente de la República de Colombia Comoros Président de l’Union des Comores Congo Président de la République du Congo Costa Rica Presidente de la República de Costa Rica 

 Offences relating to Awards 17 Country Head of State Cote d’Ivoire Président de la République de Côte d’Ivoire Croatia President of the Republic of Croatia Cuba Presidente de los Consejos de Estado y de Ministros de la República de Cuba Cyprus President of the Republic of Cyprus Czech Republic President of the Czech Republic Democratic People’s Republic of Korea Chairman of the Workers’ Party of Korea, Chairman of the State Affairs Commission, Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea Democratic Republic of The Congo Président de la République démocratique du Congo Denmark Queen Margrethe II Djibouti Président de la République de Djibouti et Chef du Gouvernement Dominica President of the Commonwealth of Dominica Dominican Republic Presidente de la República Dominicana Ecuador Presidente Constitucional de la República del Ecuador Egypt President of the Arab Republic of Egypt El Salvador President de la República de El Salvador Equatorial Guinea Presidente de la República de Guinea Ecuatorial, Jefe de Estado Eritrea President of the State of Eritrea 

18 Laws of Malaysia ACT 787 Country Head of State Estonia President of the Republic of Estonia Eswatini Head of State of the Kingdom of Eswatini Ethiopia President of the Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia Fiji President of the Republic of Fiji Finland President of the Republic of Finland France Président de la République française Gabon Président de la République gabonaise Gambia President of the Republic of The Gambia Georgia President of Georgia Germany President of the Federal Republic of Germany Ghana President of the Republic of Ghana Greece President of the Hellenic Republic Grenada Governor-General of Grenada Guatemala Presidente de la República de Guatemala Guinea Président de la République de Guinée Guinea-Bissau Président de la République de Guinée -Bissau Guyana President of the Co -operative Republic of Guyana Haiti Président de la République d’Haïti Holy See Pope Francis Honduras Presidente de la República de Honduras Hungary President of Hungary 

 Offences relating to Awards 19 Country Head of State Iceland President of the Republic of Iceland India President of the Republic of India Indonesia President of the Republic of Indonesia Iran (Islamic Republic of) President of the Islamic Republic of Iran Iraq President of the Republic of Iraq Ireland President of Ireland Italy President of the Republic of Italy Jamaica Governor-General of Jamaica Japan The Emperor of Japan Jordan King of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan Kazakhstan President of the Republic of Kazakhstan Kenya President and Commander -in-Chief of the Defence Forces of the Republic of Kenya Kiribati President, Head of Government and Minister for Foreign Affairs and Immigration of the Republic of Kiribati Kuwait Amir of the State of Kuwait Kyrgyzstan President of the Kyrgyz Republic Lao People’s Democratic Republic President of the Lao People’s Democratic Republic Latvia President of the Republic of Latvia Lebanon Président de la République libanaise Lesotho King of the Kingdom of Lesotho 

20 Laws of Malaysia ACT 787 Country Head of State Liberia President of the Republic of Liberia Libya President of the Presidency Council of the Government of National Accord of the State of Libya Liechtenstein Reigning Prince Lithuania President of the Republic of Lithuania Luxembourg Le Grand-Duc de Luxembourg Madagascar Président de la République de Madagascar Malawi President of the Republic of Malawi, Minister for Defense and Commander -in -Chief of the Malawi Defense Force and the Malawi Police Service Maldives President of the Republic of Maldives Mali Président de la République du Mali Malta President of the Republic of Malta Marshall Islands President of the Republic of the Marshall Islands Mauritania Président de la République islamique de Mauritanie Mauritius President of the Republic of Mauritius Mexico Presidente de los Estados Unidos Mexicanos Micronesia (Federated States of) President and Head of Government of the Federated States of Micronesia Monaco Prince Souverain de Monaco Mongolia President of Mongolia Montenegro President of Montenegro 

 Offences relating to Awards 21 Country Head of State Morocco Roi du Maroc Mozambique President of the Republic of Mozambique Myanmar President of the Republic of the Union of Myanmar Namibia President of the Republic of Namibia Nauru President of the Republic of Nauru Nepal President of the Federa l Democratic Republic of Nepal Netherlands King Willem-Alexander of the Netherlands New Zealand Governor-General of New Zealand Nicaragua Presidente de la República de Nicaragua Niger Président de la République du Niger Nigeria President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria North Macedonia President of the Republic of North Macedonia Norway King Harald V Oman Sultan of Oman Pakistan President of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan Palau President of the Republic of Palau Panama Presidente de la República de Panamá Papua New Guinea Governor-General of the Independent State of Papua New Guinea 

22 Laws of Malaysia ACT 787 Country Head of State Paraguay Presidente de la República del Paraguay Peru Presidente de la República del Perú Philippines President of the Republic of the Philippines Poland President of the Republic of Poland Portugal President of the Portuguese Republic Qatar Emir of the State of Qatar Republic of Korea President of the Republic of Korea Republic of Moldova President of the Republic of Moldova Romania Président de la Roumanie Russian Federation President of the Russian Federation Rwanda President of the Republic of Rwanda Saint Kitts and Nevis Governor-General of Saint Kitts and Nevis Saint Lucia Governor-General of Saint Lucia Saint Vincent and the Grenadines Governor-General of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines Samoa Head of State of the Independent State of Samoa San Marino Captains Regent of the Republic of San Marino Sao Tome and Principe Président de la Répub lique démocratique de Sao Tomé et Principe Saudi Arabia King of Saudi Arabia and President of the Council of Ministers of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia Senegal Président de la République du Sénégal Serbia President of the Republic of Serbia 

 Offences relating to Awards 23 Country Head of State Seychelles President of the Republic of Seychelles Sierra Leone President of the Republic of Sierra Leone Singapore President of the Republic of Singapore Slovakia President of the Slovak Republic Slovenia President of the Republic of Slovenia Solomon Islands Governor-General of Solomon Islands Somalia President of the Federal Republic of Somalia South Africa President of the Republic of South Africa South Sudan President of the Republic of South Sudan Spain Rey de España or Sus Majest ades el Rey y la Reina de España Sri Lanka President of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka State of Palestine President of the State of Palestine Sudan President of the Transitional Sovereign Council of the Republic of the Sudan Suriname President of the Republic of Suriname Sweden King Carl XVI Gustaf Switzerland Présidente de la Confédération Suisse Syrian Arab Republic President of the Syrian Arab Republic Tajikistan President of the Republic of Tajikistan Thailand King of Thailand 

24 Laws of Malaysia ACT 787 Country Head of State Timor-Leste President of the Democratic Republic of Timor-Leste Togo Président de la République togolaise et Ministre de la Défense nationale et des anciens Combattants Tonga King of the Kingdom of Tonga Trinidad and Tobago President of the Republic of Trinidad and Tobago Tunisia Président de la République tunisienne Turkey President of the Republic of Turkey Turkmenistan President of Turkmenistan Tuvalu Governor-General of Tuvalu Uganda President of the Republic of Uganda Ukraine President of Ukraine United Arab Emirates President of the United Arab Emirates United Kingdom Queen Elizabeth II United Republic of Tanzania President of the United Republic of Tanzania United States of America President of the United States of America Uruguay Presidente de la República Oriental del Uruguay Uzbekistan President of the Republic of Uzbekistan Vanuatu President of the Republic of Vanuatu Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of) Presidente de la República Bolivariana de Venezuela Viet Nam President of the Socialist Republic of Viet Nam 

 Offences relating to Awards 25 Country Head of State Yemen President of the Republic of Yemen Zambia President of the Republic of Zambia Zimbabwe President of the Republic of Zimbabwe SECOND SCHEDULE [Section 17] State Law State State Law Provisions relating to offences Johore Johore Emblems, Titles and Awards (Prevention of Improper Use) Enactment 2017 [Enactment 11] Sections 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11 and 12 Kelantan Emblems and Names (Prevention of Improper Use) Enactment, 1977 [Enactment No. 8 of 1977] Sections 3, 4, 5A, 5B, 5C, 5D, 5E, 5F, 5G, 5H, 5I, 5J and 6 Malacca Emblems and Names (Prevention of Improper Use) Enactment , 1981 [Enactment No. 2 of 1981] Sections 3, 4 A, 4 B, 4 C, 4D, 4E, 4F, 4G, 4H and 5 Pahang Pahang Emblems, Titles or Awards (Prevention of Improper Use) Enactment 2017 [Enactment 18] Sections 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11 and 12 Perak Perak Emblems, Titles and Awards (Prevention of Improper Use) Enactment 2016 [Enactment 12] Sections 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11 and 12 Selangor Emblems, Names, Titles and Honours (Prevention of Improper Use) 1962 [Enactment 13] Sections 3, 4, 4A, 4B, 4C, 4D, 4E, 4F, 4G, 4H and 5 

26 Laws of Malaysia ACT 787 Terengganu Emblems, Names, Titles and Honours (Prevention of Im proper Use) Enactment , 1976 [Enactment No. 11 of 1976] Sections 3, 4, 4A, 4B, 4C, 4D, 4E, 4F, 4G and 4H 

27 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 787 OFFENCES RELATING TO AWARDS ACT 2017 LIST OF AMENDMENTS Amending law Short title In force from P.U. (A) 267/2018 Offences Relating to Awards (Amendment of First Schedule) Order 2018 202018 P.U. (A) 9/2019 Offences relating to Awards (Amendment of Second Schedule) Order 2019 102019 P.U. (A) 215/2020 Offences Relating to Awards (Amendment of First Schedule) Order 2020 292020 P.U. (A) 169/2024 Offences Relating to Awards (Amendment of First Schedule) Order 202 4 262024 

28 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 787 OFFENCES RELATING TO AWARDS ACT 2017 LIST OF SECTIONS AMENDED Section Amending authority In force from First Schedule P.U. (A) 267/2018 202018 P.U. (A) 215/2020 292020 Second Schedule P.U. (A) 9/2019 102019 P.U. (A) 169/2024 262024