LAWS OF MALAYSIA ONLINE VERSION OF UPDATED TEXT OF REPRINT Act 327 PROMOTION OF INVESTMENTS ACT 1986 As at 1 January 2022 This text is ONLY AN UPDATED TEXT of the Promotion of Investments Act 1986 by the Attorney General’s Chambers. Unless and until reprinted pursuant to the powers of the Commissioner of Law Revision under subsection 14(1) of the Revision of Laws Act 1968 [Act 1], this text is NOT AN AUTHENTIC TEXT.

2 PROMOTION OF INVESTMENTS ACT 1986 Date of Royal Assent … … … 7 May 1986 Date of publication in the Gazette … … … 15 May 1986 English text to be authoritative … … … P.U. (B) 561/1986 Latest amendment made by Act 833 which came into operation on … … … 1 January 2022 PREVIOUS REPRINTS First Reprint … … … … … 2001 Second Reprint … … … … … 2006 Third Reprint … … … … … 2019 

3 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 327 PROMOTION OF INVESTMENTS ACT 1986 ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS PART I PRELIMINARY Section 1. Short title, construction and commencement 2. Interpretation 3. Application of incentives only to companies 4. Determination of promoted activities or promoted products 4A. Activity or product deemed to be promoted activity or promoted product 4B. Activity or product deemed to be promoted acti vity or promoted product for purposes of subsections 5(1C), sections 26C, 26D, 26E and 26G 4C. (Deleted) 4D. Determination of promoted activities or promoted products for selected industries 4E. Determination of promoted activities or promoted products for automotive component modules industry 4F. Determination of promoted activities or promoted products for reinvestment PART II RELIEF FROM INCOME TAX Chapter 1— Research and Development Status, and Pioneer Status 4G. Application for approval of re search and development status 4H. Grant of research and development status 4I. Non-compliance of approval 

4 Laws of Malaysia ACT 327 Section 4J. Withdrawal of approval 4K. Surrender of research and development status 4L. Extension of research and development status period 5. Application for pioneer status 6. Grant of pioneer status 7. Pioneer certificate 8. Withdrawal of pioneer status 9. Cancellation of pioneer certificate 9A. Surrender of pioneer status or pioneer certificate 10. Application for additional promoted act ivity or promoted product 11. Retrospective operations 12. (Deleted) 13. Meaning of company in relation to agriculture 14. Tax relief period 14A. Extension of tax relief period 14B. No extension of tax relief period for application for pioneer status received on or after 1 November 1991 14C. Extension of tax relief period for pioneer status granted under subsection 6(1AB), 6(1AE), 6(1AG) or 6(1AI) 15. Pioneer and post-pioneer business 16. (Deleted) 17. Power to direct in certain events 18. Capital allowances 19. (Deleted) 20. Returns of income 21. Computation of income during tax relief period 21A. Restriction of income computed during tax relief period 21B. Computation of income during tax relief period in respect of application received on or after 1 November 1991 21BA. Computation of income during tax relief period in respect of pioneer status granted to a small company under subsection 6(1A) 21C. Computation of income during tax relief period in respect of pioneer status granted under subsection 6(1AB) 21D. (Deleted) 

Promotion Of Investments 5 Section 21DA. (Deleted) 21E. Computation of income during tax relief period in respect of pioneer status granted under subsection 6(1AC) 21F. Computation of income during tax relief period in respect of pioneer status g ranted under subsection 6(1) for an application under subsection 5(1D) 21G. (Deleted) 21H. Computation of income during tax relief period in respect of pioneer status granted to a company participating in selected industries under subsection 6(1AE) 21I. Computation of income during tax relief period in respect of pioneer status granted to a company participating in production of automotive component modules industry under subsection 6(1AF) 21J. Computation of income during tax relief period in respect o f pioneer status granted to a company undertaking reinvestment for the same promoted activity or same promoted product under subsection 6(1AG) 21K. (Deleted) 21L. Computation of income during tax relief period in respect of pioneer status granted to a co mpany commercializing research and development findings under subsection 6(1AI) 21M. (Deleted) 22. (Deleted) 22A. Company shall maintain statem ent for income computed during tax relief period 23. Certain dividends exempted from income tax 24. Income wrongly exempted, etc. 25. Loss incurred in tax relief period Chapter 2—Investment Tax Allowance 26. Application for approval for investment tax allowance 26A. Application for approval for investment tax allowance in respect of an activity or a produc t which is deemed under section 4A to be a promoted activity or promoted product 26B. (Deleted) 26C. Application for approval for investment tax allowance to contract research and development company 26D. Application for approval for investment tax allo wance to research and development company 

6 Laws of Malaysia ACT 327 Section 26E. Application for approval for investment tax allowance to company carrying on in-house research 26F. Application for approval for investment tax allowance to high technology company or a company establishing or upgrading medical devices testing laboratory 26G. Application for approval for investment tax allowance to a technical or vocational training company and private higher educational institutions 26H. (Deleted) 26I. Application for approval for investment tax allowance in respect of an activity or product in selected industries as prescribed under section 4D 26J. Application for approval for investment tax allowance in respect of an activity or product in automotive component modules indus try as prescribed under section 4E 26K. Application for approval for investment tax allowance in respect of reinvestment in activity or product as prescribed under section 4F 26L. (Deleted) 26M. Application for approval for investment tax allowanc e to a company undertaking the production of halal food product 26N. Application for approval for investment tax allowance to a company conserving energy for own consumption 26O. (Deleted) 27. Grant of approval for purpose of investment 27A. Grant of approv al of application for investment tax allowance made under subsection 26A(1) 27B. (Deleted) 27C. Grant of approval of application for investment tax allowance made under subsection 26C(1) 27D. Grant of approval of application for investment tax allowance made under subsection 26D(1) 27E. Grant of approval of application for investment tax allowance made under subsection 26E(1) 27F. Grant of approval of application for investment tax allowance made under subsection 26F(1) or (2A) 27G. Grant of approval of application for investment tax allowance made under subsection 26G(1) or (2) 27H. (Deleted) 

Promotion Of Investments 7 Section 27I. Grant of approval of application for investment tax allowance made under subsections 26J(1), (1A) and (1B) 27J. Grant of approval of application for investment tax allowance made under subsection 26J(1) 27K. Grant of approval of application for investment tax allowance made under subsection 26K(1) 27L. (Deleted) 27M. Grant of approval of application for investment tax allowance made under subsection 26M(1) 27N. Grant of approval of application for investment tax allowance made under subsection 26N(1) 27O. (Deleted) 27P. Determination of effective date and compliance for investment tax allowance 28. Withdrawal of approval of investment tax 28A. Surrender of the grant of approval of investment tax allowance 29. Investment tax allowance 29A. Investment tax allowance in respect of application received on or after 1 November 1991 29B. Investment tax allowance for application under subsection 2 6(1) which has been approved under subsection 27(1 A) for a small company 29C. (Deleted) 29D. Investment tax allowance for application under section 26C which has been approved under section 27C 29E. Investment tax allowance for application under section 26D which has been approved under section 27D 29F. Investment tax allowance for application under section 26E which has been approved under section 27E 29G. Investment tax allowance for application under section 26F which has been approved under section 27F 29H. Investment tax allowance for application under section 26G which has been approved under section 27G 29I. (Deleted) 29J. Investment tax allowance for application under section 26 I which has been approved under section 27I 29K. Investment tax allowance for application under section 26J which has been approved under section 27J 

8 Laws of Malaysia ACT 327 Section 29L. Investment tax allowance for application under section 26K which has been approved under section 27K 29M. (Deleted) 29N. Investment tax allowance for application under section 26M which has been approved under section 27M 29O. Investment tax allowance for application under section 26N which has been approved under section 27N 29P. (Deleted) 29Q. Determination of capital expenditure in respect of promot ed activity or promoted product subject to goods and services tax for investment tax allowance 29R. Adjustment of capital expenditure incurred which is subject to goods and services tax 30. (Deleted) 30A. Withdrawal of investment tax allowance in relati on to disposed asset 31. Meaning of company in relation to agriculture Chapter 2A—Industrial Adjustment Allowance 31A–31E. (Deleted) Chapter 3—Abatement of Adjusted Income 32–35. (Deleted) Chapter 4—Abatement of Statutory Income for Exports 36–38. (Deleted) Chapter 5—Export Allowance 39–40A. (Deleted) Chapter 6—Deductions for Promotion of Exports 41. Deductions for promotion of exports Chapter 7—Infrastructure Allowance 41A–41B. (Deleted) 

Promotion Of Investments 9 PART III SUPPLEMENTAL Section 42. Power of entry, etc. 43. Power to make rules and regulations 43A. Separate accounts 44. Repeal 45. Savings 46–47. (Deleted) 48. Application of this Act to tax relief period 49. Capital expenditure incurred on plant and machinery in hotel business 50. Application for an incentive of a similar character 50A. Application for investment tax allowance by a company granted an incentive under the repealed law 50AA. Eligibility of companies under repealed law for industrial adjustment allowance 50B. Eligibility of company under repealed law for abatement of adjusted income or export allowance 51. Application under repealed law 52. Concurrence of the Minister of Finance 53. Application of sections 27 and 29 of the repealed law 54. Functions of a public off icer 55. References to repealed law SCHEDULE 

 

 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 327 PROMOTION OF INVESTMENTS ACT 1986 An act to make provision for promoting by way of relief from income tax the establishment and development in Malaysia of industrial, agricultural and other commercial enterprises, for the promotions of exports and for incidental and related purposes. [1 January 1986] BE IT ENACTED by the Seri Paduka Baginda Yang di -Pertuan Agong with the advice and consent of the Dewan Negara and Dewan Rakyat in Parliament assembled, and by the authority of the same, as follows: PART I PRELIMINARY Short title, construction and commencement 1. (1) This Act may be cited as the Promotion of Investments Act 1986. (2) Subject to section 2, this Act shall be read and construed as one with the Income Tax Act 1967 [ Act 53] (hereinafter referred to as the “principal Act”). (3) This Act shall be deemed to have come into force on 1 January 1986 and shall have effect for the year of assessment 1987 and subsequent years of assessment: Provided that where approval in respect of any application, whether made before or after the commencement of this Act, is granted under 

12 Laws of Malaysia ACT 327 this Act retrospectively from a date prior to 1 January 1986, this Act shall have effect from such date. (4) Notwithstanding subsection (3), sections 36 and 39 shall have effect only in respect of manufactured products and agricultural produce exported on or after 1 January 1986. Interpretation 2. (1) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires— “accounting period” means a period for which accounts have been made in accordance with paragraph 15(1)(c); “agro-based co-operative society” shall have the meaning assigned to it in the Farmers’ Organization Act 1973 [Act 109]; “approved standard”, in relation to a hotel, means the standard as determined by the defined authority; “Area Farmers’ Association”, “Federal Farmers’ Association” and “State Farmers’ Association” shall have the meanings assigned to them in the *Farmers’ Association Act 1967 [Act 22 of 1967]; “Area Fishermen’s Association”, “Federal Fishermen’s Association” and “State Fishermen’s Association” shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Fishermen’s Association Act 1971 [Act 44]; **“company” means a company— (a) incorporated in Malaysia under the ***Companies Act 1965 [Act 125]; and (b) resident in Malaysia in the basis year for a year of assessment;  *NOTE—The Farmers’ Association Act 1967 [ Act 22 of 1967] has since been repealed by the Farmers’ Organization Act 1973 [Act 109] which comes into operation on 1 November 1973-see section 36 of Act 109. **NOTE—see section 51 of Act A1468. ***NOTE—The Companies Act 1965 [ Act 125] has since been repealed by the Companies Act 2016 [Act 777] which comes into operation on 31 January 2017- see subsection 620(1) of Act 777. 

Promotion Of Investments 13 “contract research and devel opment company” means a company which is approved as a research and development status company under section 4 H to provide research and development services in Malaysia only to a company other than its related company; “defined authority” means the Minister with the concurrence in writing of the Minister of Finance; “halal food product” means a p roduct which has obtained certification for recognized quality systems and standards, and halal certification evidenced by a certificate issued by a certification body as determined by the Minister of Finance; “high technology company” means a company eng aged in a promoted activity or in the production of a promoted product in areas of new and emerging technologies; “hotel” means any accommodation, which includes a hotel, a motel, chalet or hostel, of the approved standard registered with the *Ministry of Tourism, Arts and Culture; “hotel business” means the carrying on of a business in a hotel where such business provides sleeping accommodation and may include providing of food, drinks and other services or facilities and the granting of concessions of a ny part of such hotel for purposes connected with and incidental to the promotion of tourism; “incurred” has the same meaning assigned to it in paragraphs 46 and 55 of Schedule 3 to the principal Act; “in-house research” means research and development c arried on in Malaysia within a company for the purposes of its own business; “input tax” has the meaning assigned to it in the Goods and Services Tax Act 2014 [Act 762]; “integrated agricultural activity” means an activity which comprises the production of agricultural produce and the manufacturing of such  *NOTE—Previously known as “Ministry of Culture, Arts and Tourism”—see P.U. (A) 132/2019. NOTE—This Act has been repealed by the Goods and Services Tax (Repeal) Act 2018 [ Act 805]—see section 3 of Act 805. 

14 Laws of Malaysia ACT 327 produce and includes any activity which is related and incidental to such activity; “Minister”, except where there is a specific reference to the Minister of Finance, means the Minister of Internatio nal Trade and Industry; “output tax” has the meaning assigned to it in the Goods and Services Tax Act 2014; “pioneer business” means the business of a pioneer company relating to a promoted activity or promoted product of the company which is carried on by it in its tax relief period; “pioneer certificate” means a pioneer certificate given under section 7 or any such certificate as amended; “pioneer company” means a company certified by a pioneer certificate to be a pioneer company in relation to a p romoted activity or promoted product in respect of which the tax relief period has not ended or has not ceased; “pioneer factory” means a factory certified by a pioneer certificate to be a pioneer factory; “post-pioneer business” means the business of a pioneer company deemed under section 15 to have been set up and commenced on the day following the end of its tax relief period; “pre-pioneer business” means the business of a pioneer company relating to the promoted activity or promoted product of the co mpany which is carried on by it before the beginning of the tax relief period; “private higher educational institution” has the same meaning as defined in the Private Higher Educational Institutions Act 1996 [Act 555]; “production day” means the day spec ified as such in the pioneer certificate in accordance with section 7;  NOTE—This Act has been repealed by the Goods and Services Tax (Repeal) Act 2018 [Act 805]—see section 3 of Act 805. 

Promotion Of Investments 15 “promoted activity” means a manufacturing, agricultural, integrated agricultural, hotel, tourist or other industrial or commercial activity determined by the Minister in accordance with section 4 and includes the activity referred to in section 4A, 4B, 4D, 4E, 4F or subsection 5(1A); “promoted product” means any product determined by the Minister in accordance with section 4 and includes the product referred to in section 4A, 4B, 4D, 4E, 4F or subsection 5(1A); “reinvestment” means— (a) in relation to manufacturing activity, capital expenditure incurred in Malaysia as prescribed under paragraph 29(7)(a) and subsection 29(8) for the purposes of expansion, modernization or automation of pro duction facilities of the same promoted activity or promoted product; (b) in relation to hotel business, capital expenditure incurred in Malaysia as prescribed under paragraph 29(7) (c) and subsection 29(8) for the purposes of expansion, modernization or renovation of the same hotel business; (c) in relation to tourist project, capital expenditure incurred in Malaysia as prescribed under paragraph 29(7) (d) and subsection 29(8) for the purposes of expansion or modernization of the same tourist project; (d) in relation to research and development activity or services, capital expenditure incurred in Malaysia as prescribed under subsections 29 D(6) and (7), 29 E(6) and (7), and 29 F(6) and (7) for the purposes of expansion or modernization for the same promoted activity; and (e) in relation to manufacturing related services, capital expenditure incurred in Malaysia as prescribed under paragraph 29(7)(e) and subsection 29(8) for the purposes of expansion or modernization for the same promoted activity. “related company”, in relation to a company, means a company— (a) the operations of which are or can be controlled, either directly or indirectly, by the first-mentioned company; 

16 Laws of Malaysia ACT 327 (b) which controls or can control, either directly or indirectly, the operations of the first-mentioned company; or (c) the operations of which are or can be controlled, either directly or indirectly, by a person who control or can control, either directly or indirectly, the operations of the first-mentioned company: Provided that a company shall be deemed to be a related company of another company if— (i) at least twenty percent of its issued share capital is beneficially owned, either directly or indirectly, by that other company; or (ii) at least twenty percent of its issued share capital of that other company is beneficially owned, either directly or indirectly, by the first mentioned company; “research and development” means any systematic, investigative and experimental study that involves novelty or technical risk carried out in the field of science or technolog y with the object of acquiring new knowledge or using the results of the study for the production or improvement of materials, devices, products, produce, or processes, but does not include— (a) quality control or routine testing of materials, devices or products; (b) research in the social sciences or the humanities; (c) routine data collections; (d) efficiency surveys or management studies; (e) market research or sales promotion; (f) routine modifications or changes to materials, devices, products, processes or production methods; or 

Promotion Of Investments 17 (g) cosmetic modifications or stylistic changes to materials, devices, products, processes or production methods; “research and development company” means a company which is approved as a research and development status company under section 4H to provide research and development services in Malaysia to its related company or to any other company; “research and development findings” means research and development findings in resource -based industry wholly owned by a public research institute or a public institute of higher learning in Malaysia; “shareholders’ funds” means the aggregate amount of a company’s paid up capital (in respect of preference shares and ordinary shares and not including any amount in respect of bonus shares to the extent they were issued out of capital reserve created by revaluation of fixed assets), reserves (other than any capital reserve which was created by revaluation of fixed assets and provisions for depreciation, renewals or replacements and diminution in value of a ssets), balance of share premium account (not including any amount credited therein at the instance of issuing bonus shares at premium out of capital reserve created by revaluation of fixed assets), and balance of profit and loss appropriation account; “small company” unless expressly provided otherwise, means a company— (a) incorporated in Malaysia pursuant to the *Companies Act 1965 [Act 125]; and (b) resident in Malaysia in the basis year for a year of assessment, whose shareholders’ funds as at the date of grant of pioneer status and issue of pioneer certificate do not exceed an amount as may be declared, from time to time, by the Minister in a statutory order published in the Gazette;  *NOTE- The Companies Act 1965 [ Act 125 ] has since been repealed by the Companies Act 2016 [Act 777] which comes into operation on 31 January 2017- see subsection 620(1) of Act 777. 

18 Laws of Malaysia ACT 327 “tax relief period”, in relation to a pioneer company, means the period ascertained in accordance with section 14 and any extension of that period under section 14A; “technical or vocational training company” means a company which provides technical or vocational training in Malaysia; “tourist project” means a project, other than a hotel business, exclusively carried out for purposes connected with the promotion of tourism and registered with the Ministry of Culture, Arts and Tourism. (2) Notwithstanding subsection (1), in the case of an industry other than a manufacturing i ndustry, this Act shall apply with such modifications as may be necessary; and, in relation to any such industry, without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing— (a) references to construction may be disregarded where they are not appropriate; (b) references to a product may be construed as references to the activity or activities appropriate to the industry in question; (c) references to producing a product may be construed as references to carrying on that activity or those activities (references to producing the relevant promoted product may be construed accordingly); (d) references to production day may be construed as references to the day on which a pioneer company commences to produce its relevant promoted product in marketable quantities or to carry on tha t activity or those activities on a commercial scale; and (e) references to a factory may be construed as references to the premises at which a promoted activity is carried on or, where such a construction is inappropriate, may be disregarded. (3) Section 13 6 of the principal Act shall apply to the Director General’s functions under this Act as it applies to his functions under the principal Act. 

Promotion Of Investments 19 (4) Where this Act provides for any income to be exempt from tax under the principal Act, the income in question shall be disregarded for the purposes of the principal Act. (5) Subject to subsections (1) to (4), where a word or expression used in this Act has its meaning defined (or has a meaning assigned to it) by any provision of the principal Act, either for the purposes of that Act as a whole or for the purposes of any particular provision thereof, then, unless the context otherwise requires, that word or expression shall have in this Act the meaning so defined or assigned. Application of incentives only to companies 3. Subject to sections 5 and 6, the provisions of this Act shall only apply to a company. Determination of promoted activities or promoted products 4. (1) The Minister, with the concurrence in writing of the Minister of Finance shall from time to time determine such activities or products as he may deem fit to be promoted activities or promoted products. (2) A list of the promoted activities and promoted products determined under subsection (1) shall be published by statutory order in the Gazette. (3) In exercising his powers under subsection (1), the Minister may take into consideration the following: (a) whether or not any activity is being carried out or any product is being produced in Malaysia on a commercial scale suitable to the economic requirements or development of Malaysia or at all; or (b) whether there are— (i) favourable prospects for further development of the activity or product; or 

20 Laws of Malaysia ACT 327 (ii) insufficient facilities in Malaysia to enable the activity to be carried out or a product to be produced on a commercial scale suitable to the economic requirements. (c) (Deleted by Act A862). (4) The Minister may consult any person or organization as he may deem fit in the exercise of his powers under subsection (1). (5) The Minister may from time to time review the list of promoted activities or promoted products determined under subsection (1) and may make additions, variations or amendments to or deletions from the list of the promoted activities or promoted products. Activity or product deemed to be promot ed activity or promoted product 4A. Notwithstanding section 4, the Minister, with the concurrence in writing of the Minister of Finance, may on a case to case basis deem any activity or product which is of national and strategic importance to Malaysia to be a promoted activity or promoted product. Activity or product deemed to be promoted activity or promoted product for purposes of subsections 5(1 C), sections 26 C, 26D, 26E and 26G 4B. Notwithstanding section 4, the Minister, with the concurrence in writing of the Minister of Finance, may deem any activity or product to be a promoted activity or promoted product for the purposes of subsections 5(1C), sections 26C, 26D, 26E and 26G. 4C. (Deleted by Act A1468). Determination of promoted activities or pr omoted products for selected industries 4D. (1) The Minister, with the concurrence in writing of the Minister of Finance, may from time to time determine such activity or product 

Promotion Of Investments 21 as he may deem fit to be a promoted activity or promoted product for selected industries. (2) A list of the activities or products under subsection (1) and the commencement dates of such activities or products as promoted activities or promoted products shall be prescribed in the statutory order published in the Gazette. (3) The Minister, with the concurrence in writing of the Minister of Finance, may from time to time review the list of promoted activities or products under subsection (1) and may make additions, variations or amendments to or deletions from that list of promoted activities or promoted products. Determination of promoted activities or promoted products for automotive component modules industry 4E. (1) The Minister, with the concurrence in writing of the Minister of Finance, may from time to time determine such activity or product as he may deem fit to be a promoted activity or promoted product for automotive component modules industry. (2) A list of the activities or products under subsection (1) and the commencement dates of such activities or products as prom oted activities or promoted products shall be prescribed in the statutory order published in the Gazette. (3) The Minister, with the concurrence in writing of the Minister of Finance, may from time to time review the list of promoted activities or promoted products under subsection (1) and may make additions, variations or amendments to or deletions from that list of promoted activities or promoted products. Determination of promoted activities or promoted products for reinvestment 4F. (1) The Minister, with the concurrence in writing of the Minister of Finance, may from time to time determine such activity or product as he may deem fit to be a promoted activity or promoted product for reinvestment. 

22 Laws of Malaysia ACT 327 (2) A list of the activities or products under subsecti on (1) and the commencement dates of such activities or products as promoted activities or promoted products shall be prescribed in the statutory order published in the Gazette. (3) The Minister, with the concurrence in writing of the Minister of Finance, may from time to time review the list of promoted activities or products under subsection (1) and may make additions, variations or amendments to or deletions from that list of the promoted activities or promoted products. PART II RELIEF FROM INCOME TAX *Chapter 1—Research and Development Status, and Pioneer Status Application for approval of research and development status 4G. (1) For the purposes of this Act, a research and development company, or a contract resea rch and development company is a company approved as a research and development status company. (2) Any company may make an application in writing to the Minister to be approved as a resea rch and development status company, and the Minister may impose any pre -condition for the application. (3) Any company applying to be approved as a resea rch and development status company shall state that the company carries on activity relating to resea rch and development under this Act and complies with any pre-condition imposed for the application. (4) Upon receipt of an application under subsection (2), the Minister may request for any information or additional document relating to the application, if necessary.  *NOTE—see section 62 of Finance Act 2021 [Act 833] w.e.f 1 January 2022 

Promotion Of Investments 23 Grant of research and development status 4H. (1) If the Minister is satisfied that the pre -condition under subsection 4G(2) has been complied with, the Minister may grant an approval for a resea rch and development status to the company for a period of five consecutive years beginning from the date of the grant of approval or any other date as may be determined by the Minister. (2) The Minister may, with the concurrence in writing of the Minister of Finance, impose any condition as he deems fit when granting an approval under subsection (1). (3) The Minister may, with the concurrence in writing of the Minister of Finance, vary the condition in the approval granted under subsection (2). (4) The Minister may, where necessary, amend the approval granted other than the period referred to in subsection (1). Non-compliance of approval 4I. Where a company which has been granted with an approval under subsection 4 H(1) fails to comply with the conditions under subsection 4H(1) and (2), the Minister shall by notice in writing require the company within thirty days from the date of service o f the notice to remedy the failure or to establish to the satisfaction of the Minister that the failure was due to some cause beyond the control of the company. Withdrawal of approval 4J. (1) The Minister may withdraw the approval granted under subsection 4H(1) to a company by way of a notice in writing where— (a) the company has failed to comply with a notice served on it under section 4I; or (b) the Minister is satisfied that the company has contravened any provision of this Act or any condition imposed unde r 

24 Laws of Malaysia ACT 327 section 4H and that in all the circumstances it is expedient to do so. (2) The withdrawal of the approval referred to in subsection (1) shall have effect— (a) on the date the approval was granted; or (b) on any other date as may be determined by the Minister. Surrender of research and development status 4K. (1) Any company granted with research and development status under subsection 4H(1) may, at any time, surrender the status by giving a notice in writing together with any reason of the surrender to the Minister. (2) Where the Minister is satisfied with the reasons for the surrender of status under subsection (1), the Minister may approve the notice o f surrender and the surrender shall have effect— (a) on the date the notice of surrender is received by the Minister; or (b) on any other date as may be determined by the Minister. Extension of research and development status period 4L. (1) The Minister may, with the concurrence in writing of the Minister of Finance, extend the research and development status period referred to in subsection 4 H(1) where the Minister is satisfied that the company has, by the end of the research and development status period under that subsection, complied with the condition imposed on the approval referred to in subsection 4H(2) or (3), as the case may be. (2) The extension of the resea rch and development status period granted under this section shall begin from the date following the end of the resea rch and development status period under section 4 H and continue for a period of five years. 

Promotion Of Investments 25 (3) A resea rch and development status company shall make an application in writing to the Minister for an extension of its resea rch and development status period within thirty days or such further period as the Minister may allow after the end of the resea rch and development status period under subsection 4H(1). (4) On receipt of an application under subsection (3), the Minister may request for further particulars or any proof of the information given in the application which he considers necessary and— (a) if the Minister is satisfied that the company has complied with the condition referred to in subsection (1), the Minister may, with the concurrence in writing of the Minister of Finance, grant the extension of the research and development status period; or (b) if the Minister is not satisfied, the Minister shall cause a notice of his refusal to grant the extension to be sent to the company. (5) The extension of the resea rch and development status period shall be granted subject to the conditio n imposed in the approval granted under subsection 4H(2). Application for pioneer status 5. (1) Any company or person proposing to register a company, being desirous of establishing or participating in a promoted activity or of producing a promoted prod uct and intending that a factory be constructed, or where the factory is already in existence, be occupied in Malaysia for that purpose, may make an application in writing to the Minister for pioneer status, or for pioneer status to be given when the proposed company has been registered, in relation to that activity or product and that factory: Provided that where an application is made by a company desirous of establishing or participating in a promoted activity or of producing a promoted product and that company is controlled directly or indirectly by— 

26 Laws of Malaysia ACT 327 (a) a pioneer company or a company which has been granted approval for the purposes of an investment tax allowance under section 27 participating in the same promoted activity or promoted product as that company; (b) a company granted pioneer status in relation to the same promoted activity or promoted product as that company; or (c) a post -pioneer company or a company which has been granted approval for the purposes of an investment tax allowance under section 27 a nd the period as prescribed under paragraph 29(2)(b) or 29(2)(c) has ended, the application shall be considered if it fulfills such conditions as may be prescribed by the Minister in a statutory order to be published in the Gazette. (1A) Any company or p erson proposing to register a company, being desirous of establishing or participating in an activity or of participating in producing a product which is of national and strategic importance to Malaysia and intending that a factory be constructed, or where the factory is already in existence, be occupied in Malaysia for that purpose, may make an application in writing to the Minister for pioneer status, or for pioneer status to be given when the proposed company has been registered, in relation to that activity or product and that factory: Provided that a company which is already operating in Malaysia may, if it fulfills such conditions as may be determined by the Minister, make an application in writing to the Minister for pioneer status. (1B) (Deleted by Act A1468). (1C) Any company or person proposing to register a contract research and development company, being desirous of establishing or participating in an activity relating to research and development and intending that a factory be constructed, or where the factory is already in existence, be occupied in Malaysia for that purpose, may make an application in writing to the Minister for pioneer status, or for pioneer status to be given when the proposed company has been registered, in relation to that activity and that factory. 

Promotion Of Investments 27 (1D) (a) Any company or person proposing to register a high technology company, being desirous of establishing or participating in a promoted activity or of producing a promoted product in areas of new and emerging technologies and intending that a factory be constructed, or where the factory is already in existence, be occupied in Malaysia for that purpose, may make an application in writing to the Minister for pioneer status, or for pioneer status to be given when the proposed company has been registered, in relation to that activity or product and that factory. (b) A pioneer company or a company which has been granted pioneer status under subsection 6(1) in respect of an application under subsection 5(1) or an approval under subsection 27(1) shall be eligible to apply for pioneer status under paragraph (1 D)(a) in respect of the same promoted activity or promoted product: Provided that the tax relief period for the pioneer company or the period as prescribed under paragraph 29(2)(b) or 29(2)(c) has ended. (c) Any company or person proposing to register a company in Malaysia, being desirous of establishing a medical devices testing laboratory in Malaysia, may make an application in writing to the Minister for pioneer status pro vided that such application is received from 8 September 2007 until 31 December 2012. (1DA) (Deleted by Act A1468). (1DB) Any company or person proposing to register a company in Malaysia, being desirous of establishing or participating in a promoted activity or of producing a promoted product in selected industries and intending that a factory be constructed or where the factory is already in existence, be occupied in Malaysia for that purpose, may make an application in writing to the Minister for pion eer status for the promoted activity or the promoted product as prescribed under section 4D, provided that such application is received on or after the date as published by statutory order in the Gazette: Provided that where an application is made by a c ompany participating or intending to participate in Malaysia in the generation of renewable energy or provision of energy conservation services, which has been prescribed as a promoted activity under section 4 D, 

28 Laws of Malaysia ACT 327 other than for its own consumption, and that company is controlled directly or indirectly by— (i) a pioneer company or a company which has been granted approval for the purposes of an investment tax allowance under section 27 I participating in the same promoted activity as that company; (ii) a company gran ted pioneer status in relation to the same promoted activity as that company; or (iii) a post-pioneer company or a company which has been granted approval for the purposes of an investment tax allowance under section 27 I and the period as prescribed under section 29J has ended, such application shall be considered by the Minister if the application is received from 8 September 2007 until 31 December 2015. (1DC) Any company or person proposing to register a company in Malaysia, being desirous of establishing or participating in a promoted activity or of producing a promoted product in the automotive component modules industry and intending that a factory be constructed, or where the factory is already in existence, be occupied in Malaysia for that purpose, may make an application in writing to the Minister for pioneer status for the promoted activity or the promoted product as prescribed under section 4E, provided that such application is received on or after the prescribed date as published by statutory order in the Gazette. (1DD) (a) Any company being desirous of undertaking reinvestment in Malaysia, in relation to a promoted activity or of producing a promoted product, may make an application in writing to the Minister for pioneer status for the same promoted activity or the same promoted product as prescribed under section 4F: Provided that— (i) such application is received on or after the date as published by statutory order in the Gazette; and 

Promotion Of Investments 29 (ii) for a pioneer company, the tax relief period for that company in relation to that promoted activity or the production of that promoted product under section 14, 14A or 14C or the period as prescribed under section 29, 29A, 29AA, 29B, 29G, 29J, 29K or 29N has ended. (b) Any contract research and development company being desirous of undertaking reinvestment in Malaysia, in relation to a research and development activity, may make an application in writing to the Minister for pioneer status for the same promoted activity: Provided that— (i) such application is received on or after 21 May 2003; and (ii) for a pioneer company, the tax relief period for that company under section 14 or the period as prescribed under section 29D has ended. (1DE) (Deleted by Act A1468). (1DF) Any company being desirous of commercializing research and development findings, and intending that a factory be constructed or where the factory is already in existence, be occupied in Malaysia for that purpose, may make an application in writing to the Minister for pioneer status, provided that such application is received on or after 11 September 2004. (1DG) (Deleted by Act A1400). (1E) Where a company has been granted approval for the purpose of an investment tax allowance under subsection 27(1), 27(1A), 27C(1), 27F(1), 27I(1), 27I(1A), 27J(1), 27K(1) or s ection 27N in relation to a promoted activity or promoted product, the company may be eligible to apply for pioneer status under subsection (1), (1A), (1C), (1D), (1DB), (1DC), (1DD) or (1DF) upon giving notice in writing to the Minister to surrender that approval in relation to that promoted activity or promoted product: Provided that as at the date of the notice of the surrender, the company has not incurred capital expenditure for the purposes of subsection 27(1), 27(1 A), 27 C(1), 27 F(1), 27 I(1), 27 I(1A), 27 J(1), 

30 Laws of Malaysia ACT 327 27K(1) or section 27N and the Minister is satisfied with the reason for the surrender of that approval in relation to that promoted activity or promoted product. (2) Every application under this section shall be in accordance with the regulations made under this Act. Grant of pioneer status 6. (1) On receipt of an application made under subsection 5(1) or 5(1 D), the Minister may, subject to subsections (2) to (6), grant pioneer status if he is satisfied that it is expedient in the public interest to do so, having regard in particular— (a) to the number of pioneer companies already established or about to be established in relation to the promoted activity or the promoted product mentioned in the application; (b) to the production or anticipated prod uction of those companies mentioned in paragraph (a); (c) to the favourable prospects of further development of the promoted activity or promoted product; (d) where the application is by a company, to the persons who are directors of the company and the descript ion of persons who are members of the company; and (e) where the application is by persons proposing to register a company in connection with that application, to the persons who are proposed to be directors of the company and to the description of persons to whom the share capital or any part thereof is proposed to be offered for subscription. (1A) On receipt of an application under subsection 5(1) the Minister may, subject to subsections (2) to (6), grant pioneer status to a small company or make a decision to grant pioneer status following the registration of a small company, if he is satisfied that the applicant has fulfilled or will fulfill such criteria as may be prescribed in a statutory order to be published in the Gazette. 

Promotion Of Investments 31 (1AB) On receipt of an appl ication under subsection 5(1 A) the Minister may, subject to subsections (2) to (6), grant pioneer status if he is satisfied that the activity or product qualifies to be deemed as a promoted activity or promoted product under section 4A. (1AC) On receipt o f an application under subsection 5(1 C) the Minister may, subject to subsections (2) to (6), grant pioneer status to a contract research and development company: Provided that the contract research and development company at the time of application has an adequate number of full time employees and incurred adequate amount of annual operating expenditure in Malaysia for an activity relating to research and development. (1AD) (Deleted by Act A1468). (1AE) On receipt of an application under subsection 5(1 DB) the Minister may, subject to subsections (2) to (6), grant pioneer status if he is satisfied that the activity or product qualifies to be deemed as a promoted activity or promoted product under section 4D. (1AF) On receipt of an application under subse ction 5(1 DC) the Minister may, subject to subsections (2) to (6), grant pioneer status if he is satisfied that the activity or product qualifies to be deemed as a promoted activity or promoted product under section 4E. (1AG) On receipt of an application u nder subsection 5(1 DD) the Minister may, subject to subsections (2), (5) and (6), grant pioneer status if he is satisfied that the activity or product qualifies to be deemed as a promoted activity or promoted product under section 4F. (1AH) (Deleted by Act A1468). (1AI) On receipt of an application under subsection 5(1 DF), the Minister may, subject to subsections (2) to (6), grant pioneer status to a company commercialising research and development findings. (1AJ) (Deleted by Act A1400).  NOTE––(i) Where a contract research and development company has been granted a pioneer status on or before 16 October 2017, this proviso shall not apply to that company until 30 June 2021; (ii) Where a contract research and development company has been granted a pioneer status after 16 October 2017, this proviso shall not apply to that company until 31 December 2018 – see section 34 of Act 812. 

32 Laws of Malaysia ACT 327 (1B) The Minister may, from time to time, review the list of criteria prescribed under subsection (1 A) and may make additions, variations or amendments to or deletions from the list as he may deem fit. (2) Pioneer status may be granted in the terms of the application or may be granted subject to such variation of those terms, and subject to such conditions as the Minister thinks fit. (3) Where an application for pioneer status is made by persons proposing to register a company in connection with that application, the Min ister may decide to grant pioneer status under this section following the registration of the company, and where he so decides— (a) his grant of pioneer status under subsection (1), may be expressed to be subject to such conditions relating to any of the matters mentioned in paragraph (1)(e), as he may specify, or in respect of a grant of pioneer status under subsection (1A), (1 AB), (1 AC), (1 AE), (1 AF), (1 AG) or (1 AI) may be expressed to be subject to any conditions as he may specify; (b) he shall give notice in writing of that decision and of any such conditions to those persons; and (c) if the company is registered within three months of the date of the notice or such further period as the Minister may allow, and the Minister is satisfied that those conditions, if any, have been or will be complied with, pioneer status may be granted accordingly. (4) Where a company is not registered within the time or such further period as prescribed in paragraph (3) (c), the Minister shall revoke the notice referred to in paragraph (3)(b). (5) No pioneer status shall be granted by the Minister, and no decision to grant such pioneer status shall be taken by him, unless the decision to grant and the terms and conditions have had the concurrence in writing of the Minister of Finance. (6) The Minister may vary any condition imposed under subsection (2) or (3) but shall not do so without the concurrence in writing of the Minister of Finance. 

Promotion Of Investments 33 Pioneer certificate 7. (1) Any company which has been granted pioneer status under section 6 shall within twenty four months from the date of such grant or such extended period as the Minister may allow, request for a pioneer certificate. (1A) An application for an extension under subsection (1) shall be made before the expiry of the period of twenty-four months or such extended period as the Minister may allow. (2) A company requesting for a pioneer certificate shall state— (a) the marketable quantities of the relevant promoted product produced by its factory prior to the request for the pioneer certificate; (b) the date on which the factory commenced the production of the promoted product in marketable quantities and the rate of production thereof; (c) that the conditions imposed under subsection 6(2) have been complied with, or where any of the conditions have not been complied with, the reasons therefore. (3) The Minister may call for such further particulars or proof of the date specified in paragraph (2) (b) and subject thereto and if satisfied that the conditions have been complied with or with the reasons given under paragraph (2)(c), he may issue a pioneer certificate certifying— (a) the company to be a pioneer company; (b) the factory at which the promoted activity is carried on or the promoted product is produced to be a pioneer factory; and (c) the production day of the pioneer company. (4) The Minister, with the concurrence in writing of the Minister of Finance, may impose such conditions as he deems fit when issuing a pioneer certificate. 

34 Laws of Malaysia ACT 327 (5) The Minister, with the concurrence in writing of the Minister of Finance, may vary the conditions in the pioneer certificate. (6) The Minister may where necessary amend the pioneer certificate issued under subsection (3). Withdrawal of pioneer status 8. (1) Where a company, which has been granted pioneer st atus under section 6, fails to comply with the requirements of subsections 7(1) to (3), the Minister shall by notice in writing require the company within thirty days from the date of service of the notice, to remedy the failure or to establish to his sati sfaction that the failure was due to some cause beyond the control of the company. (2) The Minister may withdraw the pioneer status granted to a company— (a) where the company has failed to comply with a notice served on it under subsection (1); or (b) where he is satisfied that the company has contravened any provision of this Act or any condition imposed under subsection 6(2) or (3) and that in all the circumstances it is expedient to do so. Cancellation of pioneer certificate 9. (1) Where a pioneer company fails to comply with any of the conditions imposed under section 7 or with any other provisions of this Act, the Minister shall by notice in writing require the company within thirty days from the date of service of the notice to show cause why the pioneer certificate should not be cancelled. (2) The Minister may cancel the pioneer certificate of a pioneer company— (a) where the company has failed to comply with a notice served on it under subsection (1); or 

Promotion Of Investments 35 (b) where he is not satisfied with the reasons for th e non - compliance with the conditions imposed under section 7 or with any other provisions of this Act. (3) Where the pioneer certificate of a pioneer company is cancelled under this section, the cancellation shall be declared to be effective— (a) from the da te when the pioneer certificate first became operative; or (b) if the Minister thinks fit, from such date after the date when the pioneer certificate first became operative as the Minister may appoint. (4) Where paragraph (3)(a) applies in relation to the cancellation of the pioneer certificate of a pioneer company— (a) subsection 11(2) and sections 14 to 25 shall be deemed never to have had effect in relation to the company; (b) any tax repaid to the company by virtue of subsection 11(2) shall be due and payable by the company on the date of cancellation and the provisions of the principal Act relating to recovery of tax shall apply; and (c) where subsection 11(2) had effect before the date of cancellation, any time running under the principal Act at the date when subsection 11(2) first had effect in relation to the company shall be deemed to have commenced to run from the date of cancellation. (5) Where paragraph (3)(b) applies in relation to the cancellation of the pioneer certificate of a pioneer company— (a) the tax relief period of the company shall be treated for the purposes of sections 14 to 25 as having ended on the date from which the cancellation is declared to be effective; and (b) where no accounts of the company’s pioneer business have been made up to that date, the figures in the first accounts of the company made up after that date, being accounts— 

36 Laws of Malaysia ACT 327 (i) made up for the purpose of preparing the last accounts of the pioneer business and the first accounts of the post-pioneer business of the company; and (ii) relating t o an accounting period which includes the date of cancellation, shall for the purposes of sections 14 to 25 be apportioned by reference to the number of days of that period which fall before that date. (6) Where the pioneer certificate of a company is ca ncelled under this section the pioneer status granted to that company shall be deemed to have been revoked. (7) This section shall apply notwithstanding any other provision of this Act. Surrender of pioneer status or pioneer certificate 9A. (1) Any com pany which has been granted pioneer status or issued a pioneer certificate under this Act in respect of a promoted activity or promoted product, may be eligible to apply for reinvestment allowance under Schedule 7 A to the principal Act upon the surrender of such status or certificate in respect of that promoted activity or promoted product by giving a notice in writing to the Minister of such surrender. (2) Notwithstanding subsection (1), any company granted pioneer status under section 6, or issued a pion eer certificate under section 7, may at any time surrender such status or certificate by giving a notice in writing to the Minister: Provided that this subsection shall not apply for the purpose of an application for an investment tax allowance under this Act. (3) Where the Minister is satisfied with the reasons for the surrender of such status or certificate under subsection (1) or (2), the Minister may grant it retrospectively, and the surrender shall have effect— (a) from the date the pioneer status is granted; or 

Promotion Of Investments 37 (b) in the case of a pioneer company— (i) on the date the application for such surrender is received by the Minister; or (ii) on the first day in the basis period for the year of assessment of which the application for such surrender is received by the Minister. Application for additional promoted activity or promoted product 10. A pioneer company or a company which for has been granted pioneer status in respect of a promoted activity or promoted product may make an application for pioneer status in respect of any additional promoted activity or promoted product in accordance with section 5. Retrospective operations 11. (1) The determination of any promoted activity or promoted product under section 4 or the grant of pioneer status under section 6 or the issue of a pioneer certificate under section 7 may be made to operate retrospectively from a date not earlier than 1 January 1986. (2) Where by virtue of this section a pioneer certificate is to be operative retrospectively from a date before it was given— (a) any act or thing which has been done or which has happened for the purposes of the principal Act since that date and which would not have been done or happened if that certificate had been in force at that date shall whenever necessary for the purposes of this Act and the principal Act be treated as not having been done or not having happened; and (b) if the act consists of the payment of any tax by a pioneer company, that tax shall be repaid in the manner provided in the principal Act as soon as may be after the expiration of ninety days from the production day of that company. 12. (Deleted by Act A1318). 

38 Laws of Malaysia ACT 327 Meaning of company in relation to agriculture 13. For the purposes of this Chapter, in the case of an application for pioneer status in respect of a promoted activity or promoted product in relation to agriculture, “company” includes an agro - based co - operative society, an Area Farmers’ Association, a Federal Farmers’ Association, a State Farmers’ Association, an Area Fishermen’s Association, a Feder al Fishermen’s Association, a State Fishermen’s Association and a sole proprietorship, partnership or association solely engaged in agriculture: Provided that section 23 shall only apply to a company incorporated under any written law. Tax relief period 14. The tax relief period of a pioneer company shall begin on its production day and continue for a period of five years. Extension of tax relief period 14A. (1) Subject to section 14 B, the Minister may, with the concurrence in writing of the Minister of Finance, extend the tax relief period under section 14 of a pioneer company carrying on a manufacturing activity or an activity relating to the treatment of water where he is satisfied that the company has, by the end of the tax relief period under that section, met the requirements under subsection (2). (2) The Minister with the concurrence in writing of the Minister of Finance shall prescribe in a statutory order published in the Gazette the promoted activity or promoted product and any other requirements for the purposes of obtaining the extension of the tax relief period. (3) The extended tax relief period granted under this section shall begin from the date following the end of the tax relief period under section 14 and continue for a period of five years. (4) A pioneer company shall make an application in writing to the Minister for an extension of its tax relief period within thirty days or 

Promotion Of Investments 39 such further period as the Minister may allow after the end of its tax relief period under section 14. (5) On receipt of an application under subsection (4), the Minister may call for further particulars or any proof of the information given in the application which he considers necessary and— (a) if he is satisfied that the company has complied with the requirements of this section, then, with the concurrence in writing of the Minister of Finance, grant the extension of the tax relief period; or (b) if he is not so satisfied, shall cause a notice of his refusal to grant the extension to be sent to the company. (6) The extension of a tax relief period shall be granted subject to the terms and conditions imposed in the pioneer certificate or the variation of those terms and conditions in the certificate. (7) The Minister with the concurrence in writing of the Minister of Finance may vary the terms and conditions imposed under subsections 7(4) and (5) in the pioneer certificate issued under that section. No extension of tax relief period for application for pioneer status received on or after 1 November 1991 14B. Section 14 A shall not apply to a pioneer company where the application for pioneer status is received on or after 1 November 1991. Extension of tax relief period for pioneer status granted under subsection 6(1AB), 6(1AE), 6(1AG) or 6(1AI) 14C. (1) Notwithstanding section 14 B, a company which has been granted pioneer status under subsection 6(1 AB), (1AE), (1AG) or (1 AI) may apply in writing for an extension of the tax relief period which has been granted under section 14: 

40 Laws of Malaysia ACT 327 Provided that for the purpose of subsection 6(1AG), this section shall only apply to a company undertaking reinvestment for the purpose of producing value-added products utilizing oil palm biomass. (2) The Minister with the concurrence in writing of the Minister of Finance may extend the tax relief period granted under section 14. (3) Subsections 14 A(3) to (7) relating to an extension of the tax relief period shall apply, mutatis mutandis, to an application made under subsection (1). Pioneer and post-pioneer business 15. (1) If the business of a pioneer company is carried on by it before and after the end of its tax relief period, then, for the purposes of the principal Act and this Act— (a) that business shall be deemed to have permanently ceased at the end of the tax relief period of the pioneer company; (b) in respect of that business, the pioneer company shall be deemed to have set up and commenced a new business (hereinafter referred to as “post-pioneer business”) on the day following the end of its tax relief period; (c) the pioneer compa ny shall make up accounts of its pioneer business— (i) for a period not exceeding one year commencing at the date when that pioneer business of the company commenced; (ii) for successive periods of one year thereafter; and (iii) for the period not exceeding one year ending at the date when its tax relief period ends; and (d) in making up the first accounts of its post -pioneer business the pioneer company shall take as the opening figures for those accounts the closing figures in respect of its assets and liabilities as sh own in its last accounts in respect of its tax 

Promotion Of Investments 41 relief period; and its next accounts of its post -pioneer business shall be made up by reference to the closing figures in those first accounts, and any subsequent accounts shall be similarly made up by referen ce to the closing figures of the preceding accounts of its post-pioneer business. (2) Where a pioneer company has been deemed to have set up and commenced a post -pioneer business and the accounts of the post - pioneer business are made up to a day correspon ding to the day on which the annual accounts of the pioneer business were made up— (a) the basis period (for the year of assessment of the pioneer business) in which the day of commencement of the post - pioneer business falls shall constitute for the post -pioneer business the basis period for that year of assessment; and (b) there shall be no basis period for the post -pioneer business for any year of assessment preceding that first -mentioned year. 16. (Deleted by Act A656). Power to direct in certain events 17. For the purposes of the principal Act and this Act, the Director General may direct that— (a) any sums payable to a pioneer company in any accounting period which, but for this Act, might reasonably and properly have been expected to have been payable in t he normal course of business after the end of that period shall be treated— (i) as not having been payable in that period but as having been payable on such date after that period as the Director General thinks fit; and (ii) where that date is after the end of th e tax relief period of the pioneer company, as having been so payable on that date as a sum payable in respect of its post-pioneer business; and 

42 Laws of Malaysia ACT 327 (b) any expense incurred by a pioneer company within one year after the end of its tax relief period which, but for this Act, might reasonably and properly have been expected to have been incurred in the normal course of business during its tax relief period shall be treated as not having been incurred within that year but as having been incurred— (i) for the purposes of its pioneer business; and (ii) on such a date during its tax relief period as the Director General thinks fit. Capital allowances 18. (1) The income of a pioneer company in respect of its pioneer business falling to be ascertained in accordance with this Ac t for any accounting period shall be so ascertained (after making any necessary adjustments in consequence of a direction under section 17) after deducting allowances which fall to be made under Schedule 3 to the principal Act notwithstanding that no claim for such allowances have been made: Provided that where plant or machinery is used directly or indirectly for the purposes of storage, treatment or disposal of scheduled wastes as defined in the Environmental Quality (Scheduled Wastes) Regulations 1989 [ P.U. (A) 139/1989] by a pioneer company for the purposes of its pioneer business, any capital expenditure incurred during the tax relief period by the pioneer company in respect of that plant or machinery shall for the purposes of Schedule 3 of the principal Act be deemed to have been incurred on the day following the end of the tax relief period. (2) (Deleted by Act A751). (3) Subject to paragraph (6)(b)— (a) where an asset is used for the purposes of the pre -pioneer business of a pioneer company and contin ues to be used for the purposes of the pioneer business of that pioneer company— 

Promotion Of Investments 43 (i) the residual expenditure as at the end of the basis period for the year of assessment immediately prior to the year of assessment in the basis period in which the day of commencement of the pioneer business falls shall, in respect of that pioneer business and for the purposes of Schedule 3 to the principal Act, be deemed to be the residual expenditure of that asset on the day of commencement of that pioneer business; and (ii) any capital expenditure incurred by that pioneer company in respect of that asset during the basis period in which the date of cessation of that pre - pioneer business falls shall, for the purposes of Schedule 3 to the principal Act, be deemed to have been incu rred on the day of commencement of that pioneer business; (b) where an asset is used for the purposes of the pioneer business of a pioneer company and continues to be used for the purposes of the post -pioneer business of that pioneer company— (i) the residual expenditure as at the end of the basis period for the year of assessment immediately prior to the year of assessment in the basis period in which the day of commencement of the post-pioneer business falls shall, in respect of that post -pioneer business and for the purposes of Schedule 3 to the principal Act, be deemed to be the residual expenditure of that asset on the day of commencement of that post-pioneer business; and (ii) any capital expenditure incurred by that pioneer company in respect of that asset during the basis period in which the date of cessation of that pioneer business falls shall, for the purposes of Schedule 3 to the principal Act, be deemed to have been incurred on the day of commencement of that post-pioneer business. (4) (Deleted by Act A751). (5) Notwithstanding paragraph 75 of Schedule 3 to the principal Act, where an asset is used for the purposes of the pre-pioneer business of a pioneer company and by reason of an insufficiency or absence of 

44 Laws of Malaysia ACT 327 adjusted income from that pre -pioneer busine ss for the year of assessment immediately prior to the year of assessment in the basis period in which the day of commencement of the pioneer business falls, effect cannot be given or cannot be given in full to any allowance or to the aggregate amount of a ny allowances in respect of the asset falling to be made to the company for that year in relation to that pre - pioneer business, that allowance or that aggregate amount, as the case may be, shall be deemed to be an allowance to be made to the company in relation to its pioneer business for the year of assessment in the basis period in which the day of commencement of the pioneer business falls. (6) Where in a case to which subsections (1) and (3) apply, an asset used for the purposes of a promoted activity or producing a promoted product is also used for the purposes of an activity or producing a product which activity or product is not a promoted activity or promoted product or which activity or product is a promoted activity or promoted product in respect of which the company has been granted pioneer status and whose tax relief period has expired— (a) there shall be made under Schedule 3 to the principal Act in respect of any capital expenditure on the asset such a deduction as is reasonable having regard to t he extent to which the asset is used for the purposes of that second - mentioned activity or product; and (b) the residual expenditure arrived at under paragraph (3) (a) or (3)(b) shall be reduced by the amounts of any deduction made under paragraph (a). (7) For the avoidance of doubt, it is hereby declared that where an asset is used for the purposes of the pioneer business of a pioneer company and by reason of an insufficiency or absence of adjusted income from that pioneer business for the year of assessment immediately prior to the year of assessment in the basis period in which the day of commencement of the post -pioneer business falls, effect cannot be given or cannot be given in full to any allowance or to the aggregate amount of any allowances in respect of the asset falling to be made to the company for that year in relation to that pioneer business, that allowance or that aggregate amount, as the case may be, shall not be deemed to be an allowance to be made to the company in relation to its post -pioneer business for the year of assessment in the 

Promotion Of Investments 45 basis period in which the day of commencement of the post -pioneer business falls or any subsequent year of assessment: Provided that where the tax relief period of that pioneer business ceases on or after 1 Octo ber 2005, that allowance or that aggregate amount, as the case may be, shall be deemed to be an allowance to be made to the company in relation to its post -pioneer business for the year of assessment in the basis period in which the day of commencement of the post-pioneer business falls or any subsequent year of assessment. 19. (Deleted by Act A1468). Returns of income 20. So much of Part V of the principal Act as is applicable in the case of a company shall apply in all respects as if the income of a p ioneer company in respect of its pioneer business was chargeable to tax. Computation of income during tax relief period 21. (1) The income of a pioneer company for each accounting period of its pioneer business shall be computed in accordance with the principal Act by— (a) treating each such accounting period as the basis period for the year of assessment which includes the last day of the accounting period in question; and (b) ascertaining the income in question as if it were the statutory income from the pioneer business for that year of assessment. (2) The amount of the income of a company ascertained under subsection (1) shall be subject to— (a) any condition which may be specified in the pioneer certificate of the company issued under section 7; (b) any restriction under section 21A. 

46 Laws of Malaysia ACT 327 (3) Where an amount is found under subsection (1) or under subsections (1) and (2), as the case may be, or where such amount is reduced by an adjusted loss from a pioneer business of that company pursuant to subsection 25(2), the c ompany shall maintain a statement showing that amount in question or reduced amount in question, as the case may be. (4) (Deleted by Act A1400). (5) his section shall apply to— (a) a company which has been granted pioneer status prior to 1 November 1991 pursuant to an application for pioneer status received prior to 1 November 1991; and (b) a company which has been granted pioneer status on or after 1 November 1991 but whose application for pioneer status was received prior to 1 November 1991. Restriction of income computed during tax relief period 21A. (1) Where a pioneer company is ascertained to have an adjusted loss for the basis period for a year of assessment in respect of a business relating to— (a) an activity or the manufacture of a product which is no t a promoted activity or promoted product; (b) an activity or the manufacture of a product which is a promoted activity or promoted product for which it has not been granted approval for pioneer status or an approval under section 27, so much of the statutory income of the pioneer company in respect of its pioneer business or pioneer businesses, as the case may be, as ascertained under section 21 for that year of assessment shall be reduced by such loss. (2) Where a pioneer company is ascertained to have an adjusted loss for the basis period for a year of assessment in respect of a business relating to an activity or the manufacture of a product which is a 

Promotion Of Investments 47 promoted activity or promoted product which has been granted pioneer status or an approval under section 27 but whose tax relief period or period prescribed under paragraph 29(2) (b), (c) or (d) has expired, so much of the statutory income of the pioneer company in respect of its other pioneer business or pioneer businesses, as the case may be, as ascertained under section 21 for that year of assessment shall be reduced by such loss. (3) So muc h of the loss that was utilized to reduce the statutory income of the pioneer company in respect of its pioneer business or pioneer businesses, as the case may be, for that year of assessment shall be disregarded for purposes of subsections 43(2) and 44(2) of the principal Act. (4) Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Chapter, where in a year of assessment, there is an adjustment to the loss referred to in subsections (1) and (2) for any year of assessment resulting in a decrease or increase of that loss, subject to subsection 91(4) of the principal Act, the Director General may in the first-mentioned year of assessment or within six years after its expiration make— (a) an adjustment to the statutory income of the pioneer company ascertained under section 21 for that year of assessment; or (b) an assessment for that year of assessment as appears to him to be necessary in order to counteract any benefit of exemption obtained before the adjustment of that loss. Computation of income during tax relief period in respect of application received on or after 1 November 1991 21B. (1) This section shall apply to a company which has been granted pioneer status pursuant to an ap plication for pioneer status received on or after 1 November 1991 other than to a company which has been granted pioneer status under subsection 6(1AB). (2) Subject to any condition which may be specified in the pioneer certificate of a company issued under section 7, the income of a pioneer company for each accounting period of its pioneer business shall be computed in accordance with the principal Act by— 

48 Laws of Malaysia ACT 327 (a) treating each such accounting period as the basis period for the year of assessment which includes the last day of the accounting period in question; and (b) ascertaining the income in question as if it were the statutory income from the pioneer business for that year of assessment. (3) Seventy per cent of the amount of income found under subsection (2) shall be subject to— (a) any restriction under section 21A; and (b) any reduction by an adjusted loss from the pioneer business of that company pursuant to subsection 25(2). (4) For the purposes of the principal Act, thirty per cent of the amount of income found under subsection (2) shall be deemed to be the total income or part of the total income, as the case may be, of the pioneer company for the relevant year of assessment. (5) The company shall maintain a statement showing the amount of income found under subsection (3). (6) (Deleted by Act A1400). Computation of income during tax relief period in respect of pioneer status granted to a small company under subsection 6(1A) 21BA. (1) This section shall apply to a small company which has been granted pioneer status under subsection 6(1 A), provided that an application under subsection 5(1) is received on or after 21 May 2003. (2) Subject to any condition which may be specified in the pioneer certificate of a company issued under section 7, for the purpose of computation of income during the tax relief period in respect of subsection (1), subsections 21 E(2), (3) and (4) shall apply mutatis mutandis. 

Promotion Of Investments 49 Computation of income during tax relief period in respect of pioneer status granted under subsection 6(1AB) 21C. (1) This section shall apply to a company which has been granted pioneer status under subsection 6(1AB). (2) Subject to any condition which may be specified in the pioneer certificate of a company issued under section 7, the income of a pioneer company for each accounting period of its pioneer business shall be computed in accordance with the principal Act by— (a) treating each such accounting period as the basis period for the year of assessment which includes the last day of the accounting period in question; and (b) ascertaining the income in question as if it were the statutory income from the pioneer business for that year of assessment: Provided that in the case of a company that is already operating in Malaysia, the income of the company for each accounting period of its pioneer business shall be the value-added income of the company. (2A) For the purpose of this section— (a) “value-added income” means the statutory income for the basis period for the year of assessment less the inflation - adjusted base income; and (b) “inflation-adjusted base income” shall be determined in accordance with the formula— (i) for the first year, from the production day: A (1+B) where: A is the average statutory income for up to three years prior to the production day; and B is the rate of inflation for the basis year; 

50 Laws of Malaysia ACT 327 (ii) for the second year, from the production day onwards: C (1+B) where: C is the inflation -adjusted income for the preceding year; and B is the rate of inflation for the basis year. (3) The amount of income of the company found under subsection (2) shall be subject to— (a) any restriction under section 21A; and (b) any reduction by an adjusted loss from the pioneer business of that company pursuant to subsection 25(2). (4) The company shall maintain a statement showing the amount of income found under subsection (2) or (3), as the case may be. (5) (Deleted by Act A1400). 21D. (Deleted by Act A1468). 21DA. (Deleted by Act A1468). Computation of income during tax relief period in respect of pioneer status granted under subsection 6(1AC) 21E. (1) This section shall apply to a company which has been granted pioneer status under subsection 6(1AC). (2) Subject to any condition which may be specified in the pioneer certificate of a company issued under section 7, the income of a pioneer company for each accounting period of its pioneer business shall be computed in accordance with the principal Act by— 

Promotion Of Investments 51 (a) treating each such accounting period as the basis period for the year of assessment which includes the last day of the accounting period in question; and (b) ascertaining the income in question as if it were the statutory income from the pioneer business for that year of assessment. (2A) For the avoidance of doubt, the income of a pioneer company referred to in subsection (2) shall not include any income from royalty and other income derived from an intellectual property right if it is receivable as consideration for the commercial exploitation of that right. (2B) Any income derived from intellectual property right refe rred to in subsection (2A) is subject to tax under the Income Tax Act 1967. (2C) For the purpose of this section, “intellectual property right” means a right arising from any patent, utility innovation and discovery, copyright, trade mark and service mark , industrial design, layout-design of integrated circuit, secret processes or formulae and know-how, geographical indication and the grant of protection of a plant variety, and other like rights, whether or not registered or registrable. (3) The amount of the income of the company found under subsection (2) shall be subject to— (a) any restriction under section 21A; and (b) any reduction by an adjusted loss from the pioneer business of that company pursuant to subsection 25(2). (4) The company shall maintain a statement showing the amount of income found under subsection (2) or (3), as the case may be. (5) (Deleted by Act A1400). 

52 Laws of Malaysia ACT 327 Computation of income during tax relief period in respect of pioneer status granted under subsection 6(1) for an application under subsection 5(1D) 21F. (1) This section shall apply to a high technology company or a company establishing a medical devices testing laboratory or upgrading an existing medical devices testing laboratory in Malaysia, which has been granted pioneer stat us under subsection 6(1) for an application under subsection 5(1D). (2) Subject to any condition which may be specified in the pioneer certificate of a company issued under section 7, the income of a pioneer company for each accounting period of its pione er business shall be computed in accordance with the principal Act by— (a) treating each such accounting period as the basis period for the year of assessment which includes the last day of the accounting period in question; and (b) ascertaining the income in question as if it were the statutory income from the pioneer business for that year of assessment: Provided that in the case of a company that is already in operation and carries out activities in relation to the upgrading of a medical devices testing laboratory in Malaysia, the income of the company for each accounting period of its pioneer business shall be the value-added income of the company and subsections 21 C(2A), (3) and (4) shall apply mutatis mutandis. (3) The amount of the income of the company f ound under subsection (2) shall be subject to— (a) any restriction under section 21A; and (b) any reduction by an adjusted loss from the pioneer business of that company pursuant to subsection 25(2). (4) The company shall maintain a statement showing the amount of income found under subsection (2) or (3), as the case may be. (5) (Deleted by Act A1400). 

Promotion Of Investments 53 21G. (Deleted by Act A1468). Computation of income during tax relief period in respect of pioneer status granted to a company participating in selected industries under subsection 6(1AE) 21H. (1) This section shall apply to a company which has been granted pioneer status under subsection 6(1 AE), provided that an application under subsection 5(1 DB) is received on or after a date as prescribed in the statutory order published in the Gazette. (2) Subject to any condition which may be specified in the pioneer certificate of a company issued under section 7, for the purpose of computation of income during the tax relief period in respect of subsection (1), subsecti ons 21 E (2), (3) and (4) shall apply mutatis mutandis. Computation of income during tax relief period in respect of pioneer status granted to a company participating in production of automotive component modules industry under subsection 6(1AF) 21I. (1) This section shall apply to a company which has been granted pioneer status under subsection 6(1 AF), provided that an application under subsection 5(1 DC) is received on or after a date as prescribed in the statutory order published in the Gazette. (2) Subject to any condition which may be specified in the pioneer certificate of a company issued under section 7, for the purpose of computation of income during the tax relief period in respect of subsection (1), subsections 21 E(2), (3) and (4) shall apply mutatis mutandis. Computation of income during tax relief period in respect of pioneer status granted to a company undertaking reinvestment for the same promoted activity or same promoted product under subsection 6(1AG) 21J. (1) This section shall apply to a company which has been granted pioneer status under subsection 6(1 AG), provided that an 

54 Laws of Malaysia ACT 327 application under subsection 5(1 DD) is received on or after a date as prescribed in the statutory order published in the Gazette. (2) Subject to any condition which may be specified in the pioneer certificate of a company issued under section 7, for the purpose of computation of income during the tax relief period in respect of subsection (1), for a company undertaking reinvestment in resource-based industry, foo d processing activity, hotel business and tourist project, subsections 21 B(2), (3), (4) and (5) shall apply mutatis mutandis. (3) Subject to any condition which may be specified in the pioneer certificate of a company issued under section 7, for the purp ose of computation of income during the tax relief period in respect of subsection (1), for a contract research and development company, subsections 21E(2), (3) and (4) shall apply mutatis mutandis. (4) Subject to any condition which may be specified in t he pioneer certificate of a company issued under section 7, for the purpose of computation of income during the tax relief period in respect of subsection (1), for producing value -added products utilizing oil palm biomass, subsections 21 C(2), (2 A), (3) an d (4) shall apply mutatis mutandis. (5) Subject to any condition which may be specified in the pioneer certificate of a company issued under section 7, for the purpose of computation of income during the tax relief period in relation to an application made under subsection (1), for activities or products other than those specified in subsections (2), (3) and (4), shall be seventy per cent of the value added income of the company for that year of assessment, and subsections 21 C(2), (2 A), (3) and (4) shall apply mutatis mutandis. 21K. (Deleted by Act A1468). Computation of income during tax relief period in respect of pioneer status granted to a company commercializing research and development findings under subsection 6(1AI) 21L. (1) This section shall apply to a company which has been granted pioneer status under section 6(1 AI), provided that an 

Promotion Of Investments 55 application under subsection 5(1 DF) is received on or after 11 September 2004. (2) Subject to any condition which may be specified in the pioneer certificate of a company issued under section 7, for the purpose of computation of income during the tax relief period in respect of subsection (1), subsections 21 E(2), (3) and (4) shall apply mutatis mutandis. 21M. (Deleted by Act A1400). 22. (Deleted by Act A1400). Company shall maintain statement for income computed during tax relief period 22A. A company shall maintain a statement for the income computed during the tax relief period under section 21, 21B, 21BA, 21C, 21E, 21F, 21H, 21I, 21J or 21L. Certain dividends exempted from income tax 23. (1) As soon as any amount of income of a pioneer company has become exempted under section 22 A, that amount shall be credited to an account to be kept by the pioneer company for the purposes of this section (that account and company being in this section and section 24 referred to as the exempt account and the relevant company respectively). (2) Where the exempt account is in credit at the date on which any dividends are paid by the relevant company out of income whi ch has been exempted under section 22A, an amount equal to those dividends or that credit, whichever is the lesser, shall be debited to the exempt account. (3) So much of the amount of any dividends debited to the exempt account under subsection (2) as is received by a shareholder in the relevant company shall be exempt from tax under the principal Act in the hands of that shareholder. 

56 Laws of Malaysia ACT 327 (4) Any dividends debited to the exempt account under subsection (2) shall be treated as having been distributed to the shareholders (or any particular class of shareholders) of the relevant company in the same proportions as those in which the shareholders in question were entitled to payment of the dividends giving rise to the debit. (5) The company shall keep a copy of the exempt account until the Director General is satisfied that there is no further need to maintain the exempt account. (6) Where— (a) an amount is received by way of dividend from the relevant company by a shareholder; (b) that amount is exempt from tax under the foregoing subsections; and (c) that shareholder is a company, any dividends paid by that shareholding company to its shareholders shall be exempt from tax in the hands of those shareholders. (7) Section 108 of the principal Act shall not apply in respect of any dividend or part thereof which is debited to the exempt account or in respect of any dividend or part thereof which is exempt under subsection (6). Income wrongly exempted, etc. 24. (1) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, where it appears to the Director General that any income of the relevant company exempted under section 22A or any dividend exempted in the hands of a shareholder under section 23 ought not to have been exempted by reason of— (a) a direction under section 17 having b een given with respect to a pioneer company after any income of the company has been exempted under section 22A; 

Promotion Of Investments 57 (b) the cancellation of a pioneer certificate; or (c) any other adjustment to the statutory income of the pioneer company ascertained under section 21, 21B, 21BA, 21C, 21E, 21F, 21H, 21I, 21J or 21L, he may, at any time within six years after the date of the direction, cancellation or adjustment, make such additional assessments upon any company as appear to him to be necessary in order to counteract any benefit obtained from the exemption, or direct the relevant company to debit the exempt account with such amount as the circumstances require. (2) A direction given under subsection (1) shall, for the purposes of section 99 of the principal Act, be deemed to be a notice of assessment not relating to an assessment made under section 92 of that Act. Loss incurred in tax relief period 25. (1) The amount of any loss incurred in any accounting period of the pioneer business of a pioneer company shall be computed in like manner as any income falling to be computed under subsection 21(1), 21B(2), 21BA(2), 21C(2), 21E(2), 21F(2), 21H(2), 21I(2), 21J(2), (3), (4), (5) or 21L(2). (2) Where— (a) the amount of any loss of a pioneer company has been computed for an accounting period; and (b) in accordance with subsection 21(1), 21 B(2), 21 BA(2), 21C(2), 21E(2), 21F(2), 21H(2), 21I(2), 21J(2), (3), (4), (5) or 21L(2) the accounting period has been treated for the purposes of the computation as the basis period for a year of assessment, the amount of the loss shall be deducted in the manner provided by subsections 43(2) and 44(1) of the principal Act from any statutory income from the pioneer business or the aggregate of the statutory  NOTE—See section 37 of Act 812 for explanation. 

58 Laws of Malaysia ACT 327 income from the pioneer businesses, as the case may be, of the company after any restriction under section 21 A, for that year of assessment. (3) (Deleted by Act 812). (4) Where, by reason of an insufficiency or absence of statutory income from the pioneer business or pioneer businesses for a year of assessment, effect cannot be given or cannot be given in full to any deduction falling to be made for that year pursuant to subsection (2), that deduction which has not been so made (or so much thereof as has not been so made) for that year shal l not be made in computing the total income of the company in accordance with subsections 43(2) and 44(2) of the principal Act for the year of assessment in the basis period in which the day of commencement of the post pioneer business falls or any subsequent year of assessment. (5) Notwithstanding subsection (4), the deduction which has not been so made (or so much thereof as has not been so made) for a year of assessment under that subsection, shall only be made to that company in accordance with that su bsection for a period of seven consecutive years of assessment and that period commences immediately following the year of assessment that relates to the basis period in which the day the post pioneer business falls, and any amount of deduction at the end of that period which has not been so made to that company, by reason of insufficiency or absence of statutory income for that period, shall be disregarded for the purpose of this section. Chapter 2—Investment Tax Allowance Application for approval for investment tax allowance 26. (1) Subject to subsections (2) and (3), any company participating or intending to participate in Malaysia in a promoted activity or in the production of a promoted product may make an application in writing to the Minister for approval for purposes of an investment tax allowance: Provided that where an application is made by a company participating or intending to participate in Malaysia in a promoted 

Promotion Of Investments 59 activity or in the production of a promoted product and that company is controlled directly or indirectly by— (a) a pioneer company or a company which has been granted approval for the purposes of an investment tax allowance under section 27 participating in the same promoted activity or promoted product as that company; (b) a company gr anted pioneer status in relation to the same promoted activity or promoted product as that company; or (c) a post -pioneer company or a company which has been granted approval for the purposes of an investment tax allowance under section 27 and the period as p rescribed under paragraph 29(2)(b) or (c) has ended, the application shall be considered if it fulfils such conditions as may be prescribed by the Minister in a statutory order to be published in the Gazette. (2) A pioneer company or a company which has been granted pioneer status or an approval under section 27, shall only be eligible to apply for investment tax allowance under subsection (1) in respect of a promoted activity or promoted product other than the promoted activity or promoted product for wh ich a pioneer certificate has been issued or pioneer status or investment tax allowance has been granted. (3) Where a company has been granted pioneer status, in respect of a promoted activity or promoted product, it may be eligible to apply for approval for the purpose of an investment tax allowance under subsection (1) upon giving a notice in writing to the Minister to surrender the grant of pioneer status in relation to that promoted activity or promoted product: Provided that this subsection shall onl y apply where the Minister is satisfied with the reasons for the surrender of the pioneer status in respect of that promoted activity or promoted product. (4) An application made under subsection (1) shall be in accordance with such regulations as may be made under this Act. 

60 Laws of Malaysia ACT 327 Application for approval for investment tax allowance in respect of an activity or a product which is deemed under section 4A to be a promoted activity or promoted product 26A. (1) Any company intending to establish or participate i n an activity or to participate in producing a product in Malaysia which is deemed under section 4a to be a promoted activity or promoted product may make an application in writing to the Minister for approval for purposes of an investment tax allowance: Provided that a company which is already operating in Malaysia may, if it fulfills such conditions as may be determined by the Minister, make an application in writing to the Minister for approval for purposes of an investment tax allowance. (2) An application made under subsection (1) shall be in accordance with such regulations as may be made under this Act. 26B. (Deleted by Act A1468). Application for approval for investment tax allowance to contract research and development company 26C. (1) Subject to subsection (2), any contract research and development company participating or intending to participate in Malaysia in an activity relating to research and development may make an application in writing to the Minister for approval for purposes of an investment tax allowance. (2) Where a company has been granted pioneer status, in respect of an activity relating to research and development, it may be eligible to apply for approval for the purpose of an investment tax allowance under subsection (1) upon giving a notice in writing to the Minister to surrender the grant of pioneer status in relation to that activity: Provided that this subsection shall only apply where the Minister is satisfied with the reasons for the surrender of the pioneer status in respect of that activity. (3) An application made under subsection (1) shall be in accordance with such regulations as may be made under this Act. 

Promotion Of Investments 61 Application for approval for investment tax allowance to research and development company 26D. (1) Any resea rch and development company participating or intending to participate in Malaysia in an activity relating to research and development may make an application in writing to the Minister for approval for purposes of an investment tax allowance. (2) An application made under subsection (1) shall be in accordance with such regulations as may be made under this Act. Application for approval for investment tax allowance to company carrying on in-house research 26E. (1) Any company participating or intending t o participate in Malaysia in an activity relating to in -house research may make an application in writing to the Minister for approval for purposes of an investment tax allowance. (2) An application made under subsection (1) shall be in accordance with such regulations as may be made under this Act. Application for approval for investment tax allowance to a high technology company or a company establishing or upgrading medical devices testing laboratory 26F. (1) Subject to subsections (2) and (3), any company participating or intending to participate in Malaysia in a promoted activity or in the production of a promoted product in areas of new and emerging technologies may make an application in writing to the Minister for approval for purposes of an investment tax allowance. (2) A pioneer company or a company which has been granted pioneer status under subsection 6(1) in respect of an application under subsection 5(1) or an approval under subsection 27(1) shall only be eligible to apply for investment tax allowance under subsection (1) in respect of a promoted activity or promoted product other than the promoted activity or promoted product for which a pioneer certificate has been issued or pioneer status or investment tax allowance has been granted. 

62 Laws of Malaysia ACT 327 (2A) Any company intending to establish a medical devices testing laboratory or upgrade an existing medical devices testing laboratory in Malaysia may make an application in writing to the Minister for approval for purposes of an investment tax allowance pr ovided that such application is received from 8 September 2007 until 31 December 2012. (3) Where a company has been granted pioneer status, in respect of a promoted activity or promoted product, it may be eligible to apply for approval for the purpose of an investment tax allowance under subsection (1) upon giving a notice in writing to the Minister to surrender the grant of pioneer status in relation to that promoted activity or promoted product: Provided that this subsection shall only apply where the Minister is satisfied with the reasons for the surrender of the pioneer status in respect of that promoted activity or promoted product. (4) An application made under subsection (1) shall be in accordance with such regulations as may be made under this Act. Application for approval for investment tax allowance to a technical or vocational training company and private higher educational institutions 26G. (1) Any technical or vocational training company participating or intending to for participate in Malaysia may make an application in writing to the Minister for approval for purposes of an investment tax allowance. (2) Any existing or new private higher educational institution that provides or intends to provide qualifying science courses in Malaysia as approved by the Minister of Finance, may make an application in writing to the Minister for approval for purposes of an investment tax allowance, provided that such application is received on or after 1 October 2005; (3) An application made under subsec tion (1) or (2) shall be in accordance with such regulations as may be made under this Act. 

Promotion Of Investments 63 26H. (Deleted by Act A1468). Application for approval for investment tax allowance in respect of an activity or product in selected industries as prescribed under section 4D 26I. (1) Any company participating or intending to participate in Malaysia in a promoted activity or in the production of a promoted product in selected industries as prescribed under section 4 D, may make an application in writing to the Mi nister for approval for purposes of an investment tax allowance, provided that such application is received on or after the date as prescribed in the statutory order published in the Gazette. (1A) Notwithstanding subsection (1), where an application is made by a company participating or intending to participate in Malaysia in the generation of renewable energy, which has been prescribed as a promoted activity under section 4 D, and that company is controlled directly or indirectly by— (a) a pioneer company or a company which has been granted approval for the purposes of an investment tax allowance under subsection 27 I(1) participating in the same promoted activity as that company; (b) a company granted pioneer status in relation to the same promoted activity as that company; or (c) a post -pioneer company or a company which has been granted approval for the purposes of an investment tax allowance under subsections 27 I(1), (2) and (3) and the period as prescribed under subsections 29J(1), (2), (3) and (4) has ended, such application shall be considered by the Minister if the application is received from 8 September 2007 until 31 December 2015. (1B) Notwithstanding subsections (1) and (1 A), where an application is made by a company participating or intending to participate in Malaysia in the generation of renewable energy for own 

64 Laws of Malaysia ACT 327 consumption, which has been prescribed as a promoted activity under section 4D, and that company is controlled directly or indirectly by— (a) a pioneer company or a company which has been granted approval for the purposes of an investment tax allowance under subsection 27I(1A) participating in the same promoted activity as that company; (b) a company granted pioneer status in relation to the same promoted activity as that company; or (c) a post -pioneer co mpany or a company which has been granted approval for the purposes of an investment tax allowance under subsections 27 I(1A), (2) and (3) and the period as prescribed under subsections 29 J(2A), (3A) and (4) has ended, such application shall be considered by the Minister if the application is received from 8 September 2007 until 31 December 2015. (2) A pioneer company or a company which has been granted pioneer status or an approval under section 27 I, shall only be eligible to apply for investment tax allo wance under subsection (1) in respect of a promoted activity or promoted product other than the promoted activity or promoted product for which a pioneer certificate has been issued, or pioneer status or investment tax allowance has been granted. (3) Where a company has been granted pioneer status in respect of promoted activity or promoted product in selected industries as prescribed under section 4 D, it may be eligible to apply for approval for purposes of an investment tax allowance under subsection (1) upon giving notice in writing to the Minister to surrender the pioneer status in relation to that promoted activity or promoted product: Provided that this subsection shall only apply where the Minister is satisfied with the reasons for the surrender of the pioneer status in respect of that promoted activity or promoted product. (4) An application made under this section shall be in accordance with such regulations as may be made under this Act. 

Promotion Of Investments 65 Application for approval for investment tax allowance in respect of an activity or product in automotive component modules industry as prescribed under section 4E 26J. (1) Any company participating or intending to participate in Malaysia in a promoted activity or in the production of a promoted product in the automotive component modules industry as prescribed under section 4 E, may make an application in writing to the Minister for approval for purposes of an investment tax allowance, provided that such application is received on or after the date as prescribed in the statutory order published in the Gazette. (2) A pioneer company or a company which has been granted pioneer status or an approval under section 27 J, shall only be eligible to apply for investment tax allowance under subsection (1) in respect of a p romoted activity or promoted product other than the promoted activity or promoted product for which a pioneer certificate has been issued, or pioneer status or investment tax allowance has been granted. (3) Where a company has been granted pioneer status in respect of promoted activity or promoted product under section 4 E, it may be eligible to apply for approval for purposes of an investment tax allowance under subsection (1) upon giving notice in writing to the Minister to surrender the pioneer status in relation to that promoted activity or promoted product: Provided that this subsection shall only apply where the Minister is satisfied with the reasons for the surrender of the pioneer status in respect of that promoted activity or promoted product. (4) An application made under this section shall be in accordance with such regulations as may be made under this Act. Application for approval for investment tax allowance in respect of reinvestment in promoted activity or promoted product as prescribed under section 4F 26K. (1) Any company undertaking or intending to undertake reinvestment in an activity or in the production of product in Malaysia as prescribed under section 4F, may make an application in writing to the Minister for approval for purposes of an investment tax allowance: 

66 Laws of Malaysia ACT 327 Provided that— (a) such application is received on or after the date as prescribed in the statutory order published in the Gazette; and (b) the tax relief period for that company in relation to the promoted activity or promoted product under section 14, 14A or 14 C or the period as prescribed under section 29, 29 A, 29AA, 29B, 29G, 29J, 29K or 29N has ended. (2) A pioneer company or a company which has been granted pioneer status or an approval under section 27K, shall only be eligible to apply for investment tax allowance under subsection (1) in respect of a promoted activity or promoted product other than the promoted activity or promoted product for which a pioneer certificate has been issued or pioneer status or investment tax allowance has been granted. (3) Any contract research and development company, research and development company or a company carrying out in -house research, undertaking or intending to undertake reinvestment in Malaysia, in relation to a research and devel opment activity, may make an application in writing to the Minister for approval for purposes of an investment tax allowance for the same promoted activity: Provided that— (a) such application is received on or after 21 May 2003; and (b) the tax relief period f or that company in relation to the promoted activity under section 14, 14A or 14C or the period as prescribed under section 29D, 29E or 29F has ended. (4) Where a company has been granted pioneer status, in respect of promoted activity or promoted product under section 4 F, it may be eligible to apply for approval for purposes of an investment tax allowance under subsection (1) upon giving notice in writing to the Minister to surrender the pioneer status in relation to that promoted activity or promoted product: Provided that this subsection shall only apply where the Minister is satisfied with the reasons for the surrender of the pioneer status in respect of that promoted activity or promoted product. 

Promotion Of Investments 67 (5) An application made under this section shall be in accordance with such regulations as may be made under this Act. 26L. (Deleted by Act A1468). Application for approval for investment tax allowance to a company undertaking the production of halal food product 26M. (1) Any company participating or inten ding to participate in Malaysia in the production of halal food product may make an application in writing to the Minister for approval for purposes of an investment tax allowance, provided that such application is received on or after 11 September 2004. (2) A pioneer company or a company which has been granted pioneer status or an approval under section 27 M shall only be eligible to apply for investment tax allowance under subsection (1) in respect of a promoted activity or promoted product other than the promoted activity or promoted product for which a pioneer certificate has been issued, or pioneer status or investment tax allowance has been granted. (3) An application made under subsection (1) shall be in accordance with such regulations as may be made under this Act. Application for approval for investment tax allowance to a company conserving energy for own consumption 26N. (1) Any company incurring or intending to incur capital expenditure for conserving energy for own consumption may make an application in writing to the Minister for approval for purposes of an investment tax allowance, provided that such application is received from 1 October 2005 until 31 December 2015. (2) An application made under subsection (1) shall be in accordance with such regulations as may be made under this Act. 26O. (Deleted by Act A1400). 

68 Laws of Malaysia ACT 327 Grant of approval for purpose of investment tax allowance 27. (1) The Minister may grant approval in respect of an application for an investment tax allowance made under subse ction 26(1) subject to such terms and conditions as he deems fit, and such approval may be granted retrospectively from a date not earlier than the date from which the activity or the product has been determined to be a promoted activity or a promoted product under section 4: Provided that— (i) where the Minister is satisfied that the company was engaged in a promoted activity or in the production of a promoted product, or had otherwise incurred capital expenditure in relation thereto, from a date prior to the date from which the activity or product was determined as a promoted activity or promoted product under section 4, the approval may be granted retrospectively from a date not earlier than the date from which the company has been engaged in the promoted activity or in the production of the promoted product, or the capital expenditure had been incurred in relation thereto; and (ii) no approval shall be granted retrospectively under subsection (1) or under the foregoing proviso from a date which is earlier than three years from the date the application under subsection 26(1) is received by the Minister. (1A) The Minister may grant approval in respect of an application for an investment tax allowance made under subsection 26(1) to a small company, subject to such terms and conditions as he deems fit: Provided that— (a) where the Minister is satisfied that the company was engaged in an activity or in the production of a product, or had otherwise incurred capital expenditure in relation thereto, from a date prior to t he date from such activity or product was deemed as a promoted activity or promoted product under section 4, the approval may be granted retrospectively from a date not earlier than 21 May 2003; and 

Promotion Of Investments 69 (b) no approval shall be granted retrospectively under subsection (1A) or under the foregoing proviso from a date which is earlier than three years from the date the application under subsection 26(1) is received by the Minister. (2) The Minister may vary the terms and conditions imposed under subsections (1) and (1A). (3) In exercising his powers under subsections (1), (1A) and (2), the Minister shall act with the concurrence in writing of the Minister of Finance. (4) A company granted approval under this subsection may, at any time during the period specified in paragraph 29(2)(b) or (c), surrender the approval by giving notice in writing to the Minister and where the Minister is satisfied with the reasons for the surrender of such approval or that the company has complied with the terms and conditions imposed under subsection (1), (1A) or (2) or with any other provisions of this Act, the surrender shall have effect from a date specified by the Minister in the notice approving such surrender and such date shall not be earlier than the date the notice is received by the Minister. Grant of approval of application for investment tax allowance made under subsection 26A(1) 27A. (1) The Minister may grant approval in respect of an application for an investment tax allowance made under subsection 26A(1) subject to such terms and conditions as he deems fit: Provided that— (i) where the Minister is satisfied that the company was engaged in an activity or in producing a product, or had otherwise incurred capital expenditure in relat ion thereto, from a date prior to the date from which the activity or product was deemed as a promoted activity or promoted product, as the case may be, under section 4A, the approval may be granted retrospectively from a date not earlier than the date from which the company has been engaged in th e activity or in producing the 

70 Laws of Malaysia ACT 327 product, or the capital expenditure had been incurred in relation thereto; and (ii) no approval shall be granted retrospectively under subsection (1) or under the foregoing proviso from a date which is earlier than three years from the date the application under subsection 26A(1) is received by the Minister. (2) The Minister may vary the terms and conditions imposed under subsection (1). (3) In exercising his powers under subsections (1) and (2), the Minister shall act with the concurrence in writing of the Minister of Finance. 27B. (Deleted by Act A1468). Grant of approval of application for investment tax allowance made under subsection 26C(1) 27C. (1) The Minister may grant approval in respect of an application for an investment tax allowance made under subsection 26C(1) subject to such terms and conditions as he deems fit: Provided that— (a) where the Minister is satisfied that the company was engaged in an activity or had otherwise incurred capital expenditure in relation thereto, from a date prior to the date from which the activity was deemed as a promoted activity under section 4B, the approval may be granted retrospectively from a date not earlier than the date from which the company has been engaged in that activity or the capital expenditure had been incurred in relation thereto; and (b) no approval shall be granted retrospectively under subsection (1) or under the foregoing proviso from a date which is earlier than three years from the date the application under subsection 26C(1) is received by the Minister. 

Promotion Of Investments 71 (2) The Minister may vary the terms and conditions imposed under subsection (1). (3) In exercising his powers under this section, the Minister shall act with the concurrence in writing of the Minister of Finance. Grant of approval of application for investment tax allowance made under subsection 26D(1) 27D. (1) The Minister may grant approval in respect of an application for an investment tax allowance made under subsection 26D(1) subject to such terms and conditi ons as he deems fit, and such approval may be granted retrospectively from a date not earlier than the date from which the activity has been deemed to be a promoted activity under section 4B: Provided that— (a) where the Minister is satisfied that the company was engaged in an activity or had otherwise incurred capital expenditure in relation thereto, from a date prior to the date from which the activity was deemed as a promoted activity under section 4B, the approval may be granted retrospectively from a dat e not earlier than the date from which the company has been engaged in that activity or the capital expenditure had been incurred in relation thereto; and (b) no approval shall be granted retrospectively under subsection (1) or under the foregoing proviso fr om a date which is earlier than three years from the date the application under subsection 26D(1) is received by the Minister. (2) The Minister may vary the terms and conditions imposed under subsection (1). (3) In exercising his powers under subsections (1) and (2), the Minister shall act with the concurrence in writing of the Minister of Finance. 

72 Laws of Malaysia ACT 327 Grant of approval of application for investment tax allowance made under subsection 26E(1) 27E. (1) The Minister may grant approval in respect of an application for an investment tax allowance made under subsection 26E(1) subject to such terms and conditions as he deems fit: Provided that— (a) where the Minister is satisfied that the company was engaged in an activity or had otherwise incurred capital expenditur e in relation thereto, from a date prior to the date from which the activity was deemed as a promoted activity under section 4B, the approval may be granted retrospectively from a date not earlier than the date from which the company has been engaged in th at activity or the capital expenditure had been incurred in relation thereto; and (b) no approval shall be granted retrospectively under subsection (1) or under the foregoing proviso from a date which is earlier than three years from the date the application under subsection 26E(1) is received by the Minister. (2) The Minister may vary the terms and conditions imposed under subsection (1). (3) In exercising his powers under this section, the Minister shall act with the concurrence in writing of the Minister of Finance. Grant of approval of application for investment tax allowance made under subsection 26F(1) or (2A) 27F. (1) The Minister may grant approval in respect of an application for an investment tax allowance made under subsection 26F(1) or (2A) subject to such terms and conditions as he deems fit: Provided that— (a) where the Minister is satisfied that the company was engaged in an activity or had otherwise incurred capital expenditure in relation thereto, from a date prior to the date from which the activity was deemed as a promoted activity under 

Promotion Of Investments 73 section 4, the approval may be granted retrospectively from a date not earlier than the date from which the company has been engaged in that activity or the capital expenditure had been incurred in relation thereto; and (b) no approval shall be granted retrospectively under subsection (1) or under the foregoing proviso from a date which is earlier than three years from the date the application under subsection 26F(1) is received by the Minister. (1A) The Minister may grant approval in respect of an application for an investment tax allowance made under subsection 26 F(2A) subject to such terms and conditions as he deems fit: Provided that— (a) where the Minister is satisfied that the company had established a me dical devices testing laboratory or had upgraded an existing medical devices testing laboratory, or had otherwise incurred capital expenditure in relation thereto, the approval may be granted retrospectively from a date not earlier than 8 September 2007; and (b) no approval shall be granted retrospectively under subsection (1A) or under the foregoing proviso from a date which is earlier than three years from the date the application under subsection 26F(2A) is received by the Minister. (2) The Minister may vary the terms and conditions imposed under subsections (1) and (1A). (3) In exercising his powers under this section, the Minister shall act with the concurrence in writing of the Minister of Finance. Grant of approval of application for investment tax a llowance made under subsection 26G(1) or (2) 27G. (1) The Minister may grant approval in respect of an application for an investment tax allowance made under subsection 26G(1) subject to such terms and conditions as he deems fit: 

74 Laws of Malaysia ACT 327 Provided that— (a) where the Minister is satisfied that the company was engaged in an activity or had otherwise incurred capital expenditure in relation thereto, from a date prior to the date from which the activity was deemed as a promoted activity under section 4B, the approval ma y be granted retrospectively from a date not earlier than the date from which the company has been engaged in that activity or the capital expenditure had been incurred in relation thereto; and (b) no approval shall be granted retrospectively under subsection (1) or under the foregoing proviso from a date which is earlier than three years from the date the application under subsection 26G(1) is received by the Minister. (2) The Minister may grant approval in respect of an application for an investment tax allowance made under subsection 26G(2) subject to such terms and conditions as he deems fit: Provided that— (a) where the Minister is satisfied that the institution was engaged in an activity or had otherwise incurred capital expenditure in relation thereto, fr om a date prior to the date from which the activity was deemed as a promoted activity under section 4B, the approval may be granted retrospectively from a date not earlier than 1 October 2005; and (b) no approval shall be granted retrospectively under subsection (2) or under the foregoing proviso from a date which is earlier than three years from the date the application under subsection 26G(2) is received by the Minister. (3) The Minister may vary the terms and conditions imposed under subsection (1) or (2). (4) In exercising his powers under this section, the Minister shall act with the concurrence in writing of the Minister of Finance. 27H. (Deleted by Act A1468). 

Promotion Of Investments 75 Grant of approval of application for investment tax allowance made under subsections 26I(1), 26I(1A) and (1B) 27I. (1) The Minister may grant approval in respect of an application for an investment tax allowance made under subsections 26 I(1) and (1A) subject to such terms and conditions as he deems fit: Provided that— (a) where the Minister is satisfied that the company was engaged in an activity or in the production of a promoted product, or had otherwise incurred capital expenditure in relation thereto, from a date prior to the date from which the activity or product was deemed as a promoted activity or promoted product under section 4 D, the approval may be granted retrospectively from a date not earlier than the date as prescribed by the Minister under section 4D; and (b) no approval shall be granted retrospectively under subsection (1) or under the foregoing proviso from a date which is earlier than three years from the date the application under subsections 26I(1) and (1A) is received by the Minister. (1A) The Minister may grant an approval in respect of an application for an investment tax al lowance made under subsection 26I(1B) subject to such terms and conditions as he deems fit: Provided that— (a) where the Minister is satisfied that the company was engaged in an activity or in the production of a promoted product, or had otherwise incurred capital expenditure in relation thereto, from a date prior to the date from which the activity or product was deemed as a promoted activity or promoted product under section 4D in relation to renewable energy for own consumption, the approval may be grante d retrospectively from a date not earlier than the date such activity or product is prescribed by the Minister as a promoted activity or promoted product under section 4D; and 

76 Laws of Malaysia ACT 327 (b) no approval shall be granted retrospectively under subsection (1A) or under th e foregoing proviso from a date which is earlier than three years from the date the application under subsection 26I(1B) is received by the Minister. (2) The Minister may vary the terms and conditions imposed under subsections (1) and (1A). (3) In exercising his powers under this section, the Minister shall act with the concurrence in writing of the Minister of Finance. Grant of approval of application for investment tax allowance made under subsection 26J(1) 27J. (1) The Minister may grant approval in respect of an application for an investment tax allowance made under subsection 26J(1) subject to such terms and conditions as he deems fit: Provided that— (a) where the Minister is satisfied that the company was engaged in an activity or in the production of a promoted product, or had otherwise incurred capital expenditure in relation thereto, from a date prior to the date from which the activity or product was deemed as a promoted activity or promoted product under section 4 E, the approval may be granted retrospectively from a date not earlier than the date as prescribed by the Minister under section 4E; and (b) no approval shall be granted retrospectively under subsection (1) or under the foregoing proviso from a date which is earlier than three years from the date the application under subsection 26J(1) is received by the Minister. (2) The Minister may vary the terms and conditions imposed under subsection (1). (3) In exercising his powers under this section, the Minister shall act with the concurrence in writing of the Minister of Finance. 

Promotion Of Investments 77 Grant of approval of application for investment tax allowance made under subsection 26K(1) 27K. (1) The Minister may grant approval in respect of an application for an investment tax allowance made under subsection 26K(1) subject to such terms and conditions as he deems fit: Provided that where the Minister is satisfied that the company was engaged in an activity or in the production of a promoted product, or had otherwise incurred capital expenditure in relation ther eto, from a date prior to the date from which the activity or product was deemed as a promoted activity or promoted product under section 4 F, the approval may be granted on the first day capital expenditure is incurred and that date shall not be earlier th an the date the application is received by the Minister. (2) In relation to hotel business and tourist project, approval shall be granted retrospectively under subsection (1) from a date not earlier than the date from which the company has incurred capital expenditure in relation thereto, but not earlier than three years from the date the application under subsection 26K(1) is received by the Minister. (3) The Minister may vary the terms and conditions imposed under subsections (1) and (2). (4) In exercising his powers under this section, the Minister shall act with the concurrence in writing of the Minister of Finance. 27L. (Deleted by Act A1468). Grant of approval of application for investment tax allowance made under subsection 26M(1) 27M. (1) The Minister may grant approval in respect of an application for an investment tax allowance made under subsection 26 M(1) to a company undertaking the production of halal food product subject to such terms and conditions as he deems fit: Provided that— 

78 Laws of Malaysia ACT 327 (a) where the Minister is satisfied that the company was engaged in an activity or in the production of a promoted product, or had otherwise incurred capital expenditure in relation thereto, the approval may be granted retrospectively from a date not earlier than 11 September 2004; and (b) no approval shall be granted retrospectively under subsection (1) or under the foregoing proviso from a date which is earlier than three years from the date the application under subsection 26M(1) is received by the Minister. (2) The Minister may vary the terms and conditions imposed under subsection (1). (3) In exercising his powers under this section, the Minister shall act with the concurrence in writing of the Minister of Finance. Grant of approval of application for investme nt tax allowance made under subsection 26N(1) 27N. (1) The Minister may grant approval in respect of an application for an investment tax allowance made under subsection 26N(1) subject to such terms and conditions as he deems fit: Provided that— (a) where the Minister is satisfied that the company was engaged in an activity, or had otherwise incurred capital expenditure in relation thereto, from a date prior to the date from which the activity was deemed as a promoted activity, the approval may be granted re trospectively from a date not earlier than 1 October 2005; (aa) where an application is received from 8 September 2007 until 31 December 2015 and the Minister is satisfied that the company was engaged in an activity or had otherwise incurred capital expenditure in relation thereto, the approval may be granted retrospectively from the date of the receipt of the application but not earlier than 8 September 2007; and 

Promotion Of Investments 79 (b) no approval shall be granted retrospectively under subsection (1) or under the foregoing provis o from a date which is earlier than three years from the date the application under subsection 26N(1) is received by the Minister. (2) The Minister may vary the terms and conditions imposed under subsection (1). (3) In exercising his powers under this se ction, the Minister shall act with the concurrence in writing of the Minister of Finance. 27O. (Deleted by Act A1400). Determination of effective date and compliance for investment tax allowance 27P. (1) Any company which has been granted approval for an investment tax allowance under sections 27, 27 A, 27C, 27D, 27E, 27F, 27G, 27I, 27J, 27K, 27M and 27N shall, within twenty-four months from the date of such grant or such extended period as the Minister may allow, request for the determination of the eff ective date of its investment tax allowance. (2) An application for an extension under subsection (1) shall be made before the expiry of the period of twenty -four months or such extended period as the Minister may allow. (3) A company requesting for the determination of the effective date for its investment tax allowance under subsection (1) shall state the capital expenditure incurred by the company. (4) The capital expenditure referred to in subsection (3) is as defined in subsections 29(7) and 29(8). (5) Where a company has been granted the determination of the effective date for its investment tax allowance under subsection (1), the company shall, within the period of the investment tax allowance approved by the Minister of Finance, provide the Minis ter of Finance with particulars as may be determined for the purposes of compliance of any of the conditions imposed. 

80 Laws of Malaysia ACT 327 Withdrawal of approval of investment tax allowance 28. (1) Where a company which has been granted an approval under section 27, 27A, 27C, 27D, 27E, 27F, 27G, 27I, 27J, 27K, 27M or 27N fails to comply with any of the terms or conditions imposed under subsection 27(1), (1A), (2), 27A(1), (2), 27C(1), (2), 27D(1), (2), 27E(1), (2), 27F(1), (1A), (2), 27 G(1), (2), (3), 27 I(1), (2), 27 J(1), (2), 27K(1), (2), (3), 27 M(1), (2), 27 N(1), (2) or with any other provisions of this Act, the Minister shall by notice in writing require the company within thirty days from the date of service of the notice to show cause why the approval should not be withdrawn. (2) The Minister may withdraw the approval granted under subsection 27(1), (1 A), 27 A(1), 27 C(1), 27 D(1), 27 E(1), 27 F(1), (1 A), 27G(1), (2), 27I(1), 27J(1), 27K(1), (2), 27M(1) or 27N(1)— (a) where the company has failed to comply with a notice served on it under subsection (1); (b) where he is not satisfied with the reasons for the non- compliance with the terms and conditions imposed under subsection 27(1), (1 A), (2), 27 A(1), (2), 27 C(1), (2), 27D(1), (2), 27 E(1), (2), 27 F(1), (1 A), (2), 27 G(1), (2), (3), 27I(1), (2), 27 J(1), (2), 27 K(1), (2), (3), 27 M(1), (2), 27 N(1), (2) or with any other provisions of this Act. Surrender of the grant of approval of investment tax allowance 28A. (1) Any company which has been granted approval for investment tax allowa nce under this Act in respect of a promoted activity or promoted product, may be eligible to apply for reinvestment allowance under Schedule 7 A to the principal Act upon the surrender of such grant by giving a written notice to the Minister of such surrender. (2) Notwithstanding subsection (1), a company granted investment tax allowance under this Act may at any time surrender the grant of approval by giving a notice in writing to the Minister: Provided that this subsection shall not apply for the purpose of an application for pioneer status under this Act. 

Promotion Of Investments 81 (3) Where the Minister is satisfied with the reasons for the surrender of such grant under subsection (1) or (2), the Minister in the notice approving such surrender may grant it retrospectively, and th e surrender shall have effect— (a) from the date of the grant of approval of investment tax allowance; or (b) or in the case of a company which has incurred capital expenditure, on the first day in the basis period for the year of assessment the application is received by the Minister. Investment tax allowance 29. (1) Where a company which has been granted approval under section 27 has incurred in the basis period for a year of assessment in respect of the promoted activity or promoted product capital expenditure for the purposes of that promoted activity or promoted product, there shall be given to the company for that year of assessment an investment tax allowance of an amount approved by the Minister of Finance, such allowance not being more than one hundred per cent of that expenditure. (2) An allowance for expenditure given under subsection (1)— (a) subject to subsection (5), shall be given only for the year of assessment in the basis period for which that expenditure was incurred; (b) shall be given in respect of expenditure incurred within five years from the date from which the approval is to take effect; (c) subject to subsection (3), shall be given in respect of the manufacturing activity in an integrated agricultural activity for any expenditure incurred withi n another period of five years from a date to be determined by the Minister, being a date within or after the period mentioned in paragraph (2)(b); and (d) shall, in the case of a surrender of approval under subsection 27(4), be given in respect of expenditu re incurred from the 

82 Laws of Malaysia ACT 327 date from which the approval is to take effect up to the date of surrender: Provided that— (i) where a company incurs capital expenditure from the date from which the approval is to take effect referred to in paragraph (2)(b) in relation to a business which it is about to carry on in respect of a promoted activity or promoted product, that expenditure shall be deemed to be incurred in the basis period in which it commences to carry on the business; and (ii) where a company incurs capital expe nditure prior to its application under section 27 and where the approval under section 27 is granted retrospectively from a date earlier than the date on which the application is made, the allowance under this section in respect of that expenditure shall b e given, subject to subsection (5), only for the year of assessment in the basis period in which the company is notified of the approval of the application. (3) Where a company has been granted approval under section 27 in respect of an integrated agricul tural activity, such company shall within six years from the date of such approval, provide the Minister with such particulars as may be prescribed for the purposes of determination of the date under paragraph (2)(c). (4) Where an allowance is given to a company under subsection (1) for a year of assessment, so much of the adjusted income of the company from the business of that company in respect of a promoted activity or a promoted product for the basis period for that year as is equal to the amount of t he allowance (or to the aggregate amount of any such allowance, as the case may be shall be exempt from tax under the principal Act for that year of assessment. (5) Where, by reason of an insufficiency or absence of adjusted income of a company from a bus iness of the company in respect of a promoted activity or a promoted product for the basis period for a year of assessment, effect cannot be given or cannot be given in full to any allowance to which the company is entitled under this section for that year in relation to the source consisting of that business, then, 

Promotion Of Investments 83 notwithstanding subsections (1), (2) and (4), so much of the allowance in question as cannot be given for that year shall be deemed to be an allowance to be given to the company under this secti on for the first subsequent year of assessment for the basis period for which there is adjusted income from that business, and so on for subsequent years of assessment until the company has received the whole of the allowance to which it is so entitled. (6) Where any income is exempted from tax by virtue of subsection (4), section 23 shall apply to that income (with any necessary modifications) as it applies to income exempt under section 22A. (7) For the purposes of this section, and subject to subsect ion (8), “capital expenditure”— (a) in relation to manufacturing, means capital expenditure incurred on a factory or on any plant and machinery used in Malaysia in connection with and for the purposes of the promoted activity or promoted product; (b) in relation to agriculture, means capital expenditure incurred in respect of— (i) the clearing and preparation of land; (ii) the planting of crops; (iii) the provision of irrigation or drainage systems; (iv) the provision of plant and machinery used in Malaysia for the purposes of c rop cultivation, animal farming, aquaculture, inland or deep -sea fishing and other agricultural or pastoral pursuits; (v) the construction of access roads including bridges; and (vi) the construction or purchase of buildings (including those provided for the welf are of persons or as living accommodation for persons) and structural improvements on land or other structures which are used for the purposes of crop cultivation, animal 

84 Laws of Malaysia ACT 327 farming, aquaculture, inland fishing and other agricultural or pastoral pursuits: Provided that for the purposes of subparagraphs (e) and (f), such roads, bridges, buildings, structural improvements on land and other structures are on land forming part of the land used for the purposes of such crop cultivation, animal farming, aquaculture, inland fishing and other agricultural or pastoral pursuits; (c) in relation to hotel business, means capital expenditure incurred on the purchase of a building or construction of an hotel building of the approved standard in Malaysia, including any alteration, extension and renovation or on the provision of plant and machinery or other facilities used in connection with the hotel business; (d) in relation to a tourist project, means capital expenditure incurred in respect of a tourist project in Malaysia and includes capital expenditure on— (i) clearing of land for purposes of a tourist project; (ii) planting of trees and plants; (iii) construction of road and other infrastructure facilities provided they are on land forming part of the land used for the purposes of a tourist project; (iv) the provision of birds, animals and other exhibits; (v) the provision of plant and machinery; (vi) the provision of buildings (including those provided for the welfare of persons or as living accommodation for persons), structural improvements on la nd and other structures on land forming part of the land used for purposes of a tourist project; (e) in relation to manufacturing related services, means capital expenditure incurred on any asset used in Malaysia in connection with and for the purpose of such promoted 

Promotion Of Investments 85 services as may be determined from time to time by the Minister with concurrence of the Minister of Finance by statutory order to be published in the Gazette. (8) For the purposes of this section, capital expenditure shall not include capital ex penditure incurred on buildings used as living accommodation, plant and machinery where such buildings, plant or machinery are provided wholly or partly for the use of a director or an individual who is a member of the management, administrative or clerical staff. (9) This section shall apply to— (a) a company which has been granted approval under section 27 prior to 1 November 1991; and (b) a company which has been granted approval under section 27 on or after 1 November 1991 but whose application under section 26 was received prior to 1 November 1991. (10) Notwithstanding paragraphs 9(a) and (b), subsections 29(7) and (8) shall be applicable to a company whose application under section 26 is received on or after 1 November 1991. Investment tax allowance in respect of application received on or after 1 November 1991 29A. (1) This section shall apply to a company which has been granted approval for the purposes of investment tax allowance pursuant to an application received on or after 1 November 1991 other than to a company which has been granted approval for the purposes of an investment tax allowance under section 27A. (2) Where a company which has been granted approval under section 27 has incurred in the basis period for a year of assessment in respect of a promoted activity or promoted product capital expenditure for the purposes of that promoted activity or promoted product, there shall be given to the company for that year of assessment an investment tax allowance of sixty per cent of that expenditure. (3) An allowance for expenditure given under subsection (2)— 

86 Laws of Malaysia ACT 327 (a) subject to subsection (6), shall be given only for the year of assessment in the basis period for which that expenditure was incurred; (b) shall be given in respect of expenditure incurred within five years from the date from which the approval is to take effect; (c) subject to subsection (4), shall be given in respect of the manufacturing activity in an integrated agricultural activity for any expenditure incurred within another period of five years from a date to be determined by the Minister, being a date within or after the period mentioned in paragraph (3)(b); and (d) shall, in the case of a surrender of approval under subsection 27(4), be given in respect of expenditure incurred from the date from which the approval is to take effect up to the date of surrender: Provided that— (i) where a company incurs capital expenditure from the date from which the approval is to take effect referred to in paragraph (3)(b) in relation to a business which it is about to carry on in respect of a promoted activity or promoted product, that expenditure shall be deemed to be incurred in the basis period in which it commences to carry on the business; and (ii) where a company incurs capital expenditure prior to its application under subsection 26(1) and where the approval under section 27 is granted retrospectively from a date earlier than the date on which the application is made, the allowance under this section in respect of that expenditure shall be given, subject to subsection (6), only for the year of assessment in the basis period in which the company is notified of the approval of the application. (4) Where a company has been granted approval under section 27 in respect of an integrated agricultural activity, such co mpany shall, within six years from the date of such approval, provide the Minister 

Promotion Of Investments 87 with such particulars as may be prescribed for the purposes of determination of the date under paragraph (3)(c). (5) Where an allowance is given to a company under subsection (2) for a year of assessment, so much of the statutory income of the business of the company in respect of a promoted activity or promoted product for that year of assessment as is equal to the amount of the allowance (or to the aggregate amount of any such allowance, as the case may be) shall be exempt from tax under the principal Act: Provided that the amount so exempt shall not exceed seventy per cent of the statutory income of that business of the company for that year of assessment. (6) Where, by reason of an insufficiency or absence of statutory income of the business of the company in respect of a promoted activity or promoted product for a year of assessment, effect cannot be given or cannot be given in full to any allowance to which the company is entitled under this section for that year in relation to the source consisting of that business, then, notwithstanding subsections (2), (3) and (5), so much of the allowance in question as cannot be given for that year shall be deemed to be an allowanc e to be given to the company under this section for the first subsequent year of assessment for which there is statutory income from that business, and so on for subsequent years of assessment until the company has received the whole of the allowance to which it is so entitled. (7) Where any income is exempt from tax by virtue of subsection (5), section 23 shall apply to that income (with a ny necessary modifications) as it applies to income exempt under section 22A. (8) For the purposes of this section and subject to subsection (9), the term “capital expenditure” has the meaning assigned to it under subsection 29(7) and shall include capital expenditure incurred in respect of assets to be determined by the Minister with the concurrence in writing of the Minister of Finance by statutory order published in the Gazette. (9) Notwithstanding subsection (8), “capital expenditure” shall not include capital expenditure incurred on buildings (which are used as living accommodation for persons), plant and machiner y where such 

88 Laws of Malaysia ACT 327 buildings, plant or machinery are provided wholly or partly for the use of a director or an individual who is a member of the management, administrative or clerical staff. Investment tax allowance for application under subsection 26(1) which has been approved under subsection 27(1 A) for a small company 29AA. (1) This section shall apply to a company which has been granted approval for the purposes of investment tax allowance under subsection 27(1A) provided that such application is received on or after 21 May 2003. (2) Where a company which has been granted approval under subsection 27(1A) has— (a) incurred capital expenditure in a basis period for a year of assessment for the purposes of the promoted activity or promoted product; and (b) fulfilled such criteria as may be prescribed in a statutory order to be published in the Gazette, there shall be given to the company for that year of assessment an investment tax allowance of sixty per cent of that expenditure. (3) An allowance for expenditure given under subsection (2)— (a) subject to subsection (5), shall be given only for the year of assessment in the basis period for which that expenditure was incurred; and (b) shall be given in respect of expenditure incurred within five years from the date from which the approval is to take effect: Provided that— (i) where a company incurs capital expenditure from the date from which the approval is to take effect referred to in paragraph (3)(b) in relation to a business which it is about to carry on in respect of an activity and the 

Promotion Of Investments 89 company has fulfilled such criteria as referred to in paragraph (2)(b), that expenditure shall be deemed to be incurred in the basis period in which it commences to carry on the business; and (ii) where the company incurs capital expenditur e prior to its application under subsection 26(1) and the approval under subsection 27(1 A), the allowance is granted retrospectively from the date of application received by the Minister but such retrospective date shall not be earlier than 21 May 2003. (4) Where an allowance is given to a company under subsection (2) for a year of assessment, so much of the statutory income of the business of the company in respect of a promoted activity or promoted product for that year of assessment as is equal to the a mount of that allowance (or the aggregate amount of any such allowance, as the case may be) shall be exempt from tax under the principal Act. (5) Where, by reason of an insufficiency or absence of statutory income of the business of the company in respect of a promoted activity or promoted product for a year of assessment, effect cannot be given or cannot be given in full to any allowance or allowances to which the company is entitled under this section for that year in relation to the source consisting of that business, then, notwithstanding subsections (2), (3) and (4), so much of the allowance or allowances in question as cannot be given for that year shall be deemed to be an allowance to be given to the company under this section for the first subsequent year of assessment for which there is statutory income from that business, and so on for subsequent years of assessment until the company has received the whole of the allowance or allowances to which it is so entitled. (6) Where any income is exempt fr om tax by virtue of subsection (4), section 23 shall apply to that income (with any necessary modifications) as it applies to income exempt under section 22A. (7) Subsections 29(7) and (8) relating to capital expenditure shall apply, mutatis mutandis, for the purposes of this section. 

90 Laws of Malaysia ACT 327 Investment tax allowance for application under section 26A which has been approved under section 27A 29B. (1) Where a company which has been granted approval under section 27A has incurred in the basis period for a year of assessment in respect of an activity or of producing a product which is deemed under section 4 A to be a promoted activity or promoted product capital expenditure for the purposes of that activity or the production of that product, there shall be given to the company for that year of assessment an investment tax allowance of one hundred per cent of that expenditure. (2) An allowance for expenditure given under subsection (1)— (a) subject to subsections (4) and (5), shall be given only for the year of ass essment in the basis period for which that expenditure was incurred; (b) shall be given in respect of expenditure incurred within five years from the date from which the approval is to take effect: Provided that— (i) where a company incurs capital expenditure f rom the date from which the approval is to take effect in relation to a business which it is about to carry on in respect of the activity or of producing the product, that expenditure shall be deemed to be incurred in the basis period in which it commences to carry on the business; and (ii) where a company incurs capital expenditure prior to its application under section 26 A and where the approval under section 27A is granted retrospectively from a date earlier than the date on which the application is made, the allowance under this section in respect of that expenditure shall be given, subject to subsection (4), only for the year of assessment in the basis period in which the company is notified of the approval of the application. 

Promotion Of Investments 91 (2A) Notwithstanding subsection (2), the expenditure incurred prior to the grant of approval on the basis of an application made under the proviso to subsection 26 A(1) shall not be deemed as having been incurred in the basis period the approval is to take effect whether or not the assets acquired by that expenditure are subsequently owned by the same company or a new entity. (3) Where an allowance is given to a company under subsection (1) for a year of assessment, so much of the statutory income of the business of the company in respect of the activity or of producing the product which is deemed under section 4A to be a promoted activity or promoted product as is equal to the amount of the allowance (or to the aggregate amount of any such allowance, as the case may be) shall be exempt from tax under the principal Act for that year of assessment. (4) Subject to subsection (5) where, by reason of an insufficiency or absence of statutory income of the business of the company in respect of the activity or of producing the product which is deemed under section 4A to be a promoted activity or promoted product for a year of assessment, effect cannot be given or cannot be given in full to any allowance to which the company is entitled under this section for that year in relation to the source consisting of that business, then, notwithstanding subsections (1), (2) and (3), so much of the allowance in question as cannot be given for that year shall be deemed to be an allowance to be given to the company under this section for the first subsequent year of assessment for which there is statutory income from that business, and so on for subsequent years of assessment until the company has received the whole of the allowance to which it is so entitled. (5) Where a company fails to comply with any of the terms or conditions under section 27A at the end of the five years from the date from which the approval is to take effect, subsection (4) shall not apply to the allowance to which effect has not been given under this section for the year of assessment for which its basis period includes the last day of the period under paragraph (2)(b). (6) Where any income is exempt from tax by virtue of subsection (3), section 23 shall apply to that income (with any necessary modifications) as it applies to income exempt under section 22A. 

92 Laws of Malaysia ACT 327 (7) For the purposes of this section and subject to subsection (8), the term “capital expenditure” has the meaning assigned to it under subsection 29(7) and shall include capital expenditure incurred in respect of assets to be determined by the Minister with the concurrence in writing of the Minister of Finance by statutory order published in the Gazette. (8) Notwithstanding subsection (7), “capital expenditure” shall not include capital expenditure incurred on buildings (which are used as living accommodation for persons), plant and machinery where such buildings, plant or machinery are provided wholly or partly for the use of a director or an individual who is a member of the management, administrative or clerical staff. 29C. (Deleted by Act A1468). Investment tax allowance for application under section 26C which has been approved under section 27C 29D. (1) Where a contract research and development company which has been granted approval under section 27 C has incurred in the basis period for a year of assessment in respect of an activity relating to research and development capital expenditure for the purposes of that activity, there shall be given to the company for that year of assessment an investment tax allowance of one hundred per cent of that expenditure. (2) An allowance for expenditure given under subsection (1)— (a) subject to subsection (4), shall be given only for the year of assessment in the basis period for which that expenditure was incurred; (b) shall be given in r espect of expenditure incurred within ten years from the date from which the approval is to take effect: Provided that where a company incurs capital expenditure from the date from which the approval is to take effect referred to in paragraph (2)(b) in relation to a business which it is about to carry on in respect of an activity relating to research and development, that 

Promotion Of Investments 93 expenditure shall be deemed to be incurred in the basis period in which it commences to carry on the business. (3) Where an allowance is given to a company under subsection (1) for a year of assessment, so much of the statutory income of the business of the company in respect of an activity relating to research and development for that year of assessment as is equal to the amount of the allowance (or to the aggregate amount of any such allowance, as the case may be) shall be exempt from tax under the principal Act: Provided that the amount so exempt shall not exceed seventy per cent of the statutory income of that business of the company for that year of assessment. (4) Where, by reason of an insufficiency or absence of statutory income of the business of the company in respect of an activity relating to research and development for a year of assessment, effect cannot be given or cannot be given in full to any allowance to which the company is entitled under this section for that year in relation to the source consisting of that business, then, notwithstanding subsections (1), (2) and (3), so much of the allowance in question as cannot be given for that year shall be deemed to be an allowance to be given to the company under this section for the first subsequent year of assessment for which there is statutory income from that business, and so on for subsequent years of assessment until the company has received the whole of the allowance to which it is so entitled. (5) Where any income is exempt from tax by virtue of subsection (3), section 23 shall apply to that income (with any necessary modifications) as it applies to income exempt unde r section 22A. (6) For the purposes of this section and subject to subsection (7), “capital expenditure”— (a) in relation to manufacturing based research, means capital expenditure incurred on a factory or on any plant and machinery used in Malaysia in conn ection with and for the purposes of an activity relating to research and development; and 

94 Laws of Malaysia ACT 327 (b) in relation to agriculture based research, means capital expenditure incurred in respect of— (i) the clearing and preparation of land; (ii) the planting of trial crops; (iii) the provision of irrigation or drainage systems; (iv) the provision of plant and machinery used in Malaysia in connection with and for the purposes of an activity relating to research and development; (v) the construction of access roads including bridges; and (vi) the construction or purchase of buildings (excluding those provided for the welfare of persons or as living accommodation for persons) and structural improvements on land for the purposes of an activity relating to research and development. (7) Notwithstanding subsection (6), “capital expenditure” shall not include capital expenditure incurred on buildings (which are used as living accommodation for persons), plant and machinery where such buildings, plant or machinery are provided wholly or partly for the use of a director or an individual who is a member of the management, administrative or clerical staff. Investment tax allowance for application under section 26D which has been approved under section 27D 29E. (1) Where a research and development company which has been granted approval under section 27D has incurred in the basis period for a year of assessment in respect of an activity relating to research and development capital expenditure for the purposes of that activity, there shall be given to the company for that year of assessment an investment tax allowance of one hundred per cent of that expenditure. (2) An allowance for expenditure given under subsection (1)— 

Promotion Of Investments 95 (a) subject to subsection (4), shall be given only for the year of assessment in the basis period for which that expenditure was incurred; (b) shall be given in respect of expenditure incurred within ten years from the date from which the approval is to take effect: Provided that— (i) where a company incurs capital expenditure from the date from which the approval is to take effect referred to in paragraph (2)(b) in relation to a business which it is about to carry on in respect of an activity relating to research and development, that expenditure shall be deemed to be incurred in the basis period in which it commences to carry on the business; and (ii) where a company incurs capital expenditure prior to its application under section 26 D and where the approval under section 27D is granted retrospectively from a date earlier than the date on which the ap plication is made, the allowance under this section in respect of that expenditure shall be given, subject to subsection (4), only for the year of assessment in the basis period in which the company is notified of the approval of the application. (3) Where an allowance is given to a company under subsection (1) for a year of assessment, so much of the statutory income of the business of the company in respect of an activity relating to research and development for that year of assessment as is equal to the amount of the allowance (or to the aggregate amount of any such allowance, as the case may be) shall be exempt from tax under the principal Act: Provided that the amount so exempt shall not exceed seventy per cent of the statutory income of that business of the company for that year of assessment. (4) Where, by reason of an insufficiency or absence of statutory income of the business of the company in respect of an activity relating to research and development for a year of assessment, effect cannot be given or cannot be given in full to any allowance to which the company 

96 Laws of Malaysia ACT 327 is entitled under this section for that year in relation to the source consisting of that business, then, notwithstanding subsections (1), (2) and (3), so much of the allowance in questi on as cannot be given for that year shall be deemed to be an allowance to be given to the company under this section for the first subsequent year of assessment for which there is statutory income from that business, and so on for subsequent years of asses sment until the company has received the whole of the allowance or allowances to which it is so entitled. (5) Where any income is exempt from tax by virtue of subsection (3), section 23 shall apply to that income (with any necessary modifications) as it applies to income exempt und er section 22A. (6) For the purposes of this section and subject to subsection (7), “capital expenditure”— (a) in relation to manufacturing based research, means capital expenditure incurred on a factory or on any plant and machinery used in Malaysia in connection with and for the purposes of an activity relating to research and development; and (b) in relation to agriculture based research, means capital expenditure incurred in respect of— (i) the clearing and preparation of land; (ii) the planting of trial crops; (iii) the provision of irrigation or drainage systems; (iv) the provision of plant and machinery used in Malaysia in connection with and for the purposes of an activity relating to research and development; (v) the construction of access roads including bridges; and (vi) the construction or purchase of buildings (excluding those provided for the welfare of persons or as living accommodation for persons) and structural 

Promotion Of Investments 97 improvements on land for the purposes of an activity relating to research and development. (7) Notwithstanding subsection (6), “capital expenditure” shall not include capital expenditure incurred on buildings (which are used as living accommodation for persons), plant and machinery where such buildings, plant or machinery are provided wholly or partly for the use of a director or an individual who is a member of the management, administrative or clerical staff. Investment tax allowance for application under section 26E which has been approved under section 27E 29F. (1) Where a comp any which has been granted approval under section 27E has incurred in the basis period for a year of assessment in respect of an activity relating to in-house research capital expenditure for the purposes of that activity, there shall be given to the compa ny for that year of assessment an investment tax allowance of fifty per cent of that expenditure: Provided that for the purposes of this subsection, “capital expenditure” shall not include— (a) capital expenditure as defined under subsection 29(7), 29A(8), 29B(7), 29C(7), 29D(6), 29E(6), 29G(6) or 31E(6); (b) capital expenditure for the purposes of Schedule 7 A of the principal Act: and (c) capital exp enditure incurred on plant or machinery used directly or indirectly for the purposes of storage, treatment or disposal of scheduled wastes as defined in the Environmental Quality (Scheduled Wastes) Regulations 1989. (2) An allowance for expenditure given under subsection (1)— (a) subject to subsection (4), shall be given only for the year of assessment in the basis period for which that expenditure was incurred; 

98 Laws of Malaysia ACT 327 (b) shall be given in respect of expenditure incurred within ten years from the date from which the approval is to take effect: Provided that where a company incurs capital expenditure from the date from which the a pproval is to take effect referred to in paragraph (2)(b) in relation to a business which it is about to carry on in respect of an activity relating to in-house research, that expenditure shall be deemed to be incurred in the basis period in which it commences to carry on the business. (3) Where an allowance is given to a company under subsection (1) for a year of assessment, so much of the statutory income of the business of the company in respect of an activity relating to in -house research for that yea r of assessment as is equal to the amount of the allowance (or to the aggregate amount of any such allowance, as the case may be) shall be exempt from tax under the principal Act: Provided that the amount so exempt shall not exceed seventy per cent of the statutory income of that business of the company for that year of assessment. (4) Where, by reason of an insufficiency or absence of statutory income of the business of the company in respect of an activity relating to in-house research for a year of assessment, effect cannot be given or cannot be given in full to any allowance to which the company is entitled under this section for that year in relation to the source consisting of that business, then, notwithstanding subsections (1), (2) and (3), so much of the allowance in question as cannot be given for that year shall be deemed to be an allowance to be given to the company under this section for the first subsequent year of assessment for which there is statutory income from that business, and so on fo r subsequent years of assessment until the company has received the whole of the allowance to which it is so entitled. (5) Where any income is exempt from tax by virtue of subsection (3), section 23 shall apply to that income (with any necessary modifica tions) as it applies to income exempt under section 22A. (6) For the purposes of this section and subject to subsection (7), “capital expenditure”— 

Promotion Of Investments 99 (a) in relation to manufacturing based research, means capital expenditure incurred on a factory or on any pl ant and machinery used in Malaysia in connection with and for the purposes of an activity relating to in-house research; and (b) in relation to agriculture based research, means capital expenditure incurred in respect of— (i) the clearing and preparation of land; (ii) the planting of trial crops; (iii) the provision of irrigation or drainage systems; (iv) the provision of plant and machinery used in Malaysia in connection with and for the purposes of an activity relating to in-house research; (v) the construction of access roads including bridges; and (vi) the construction or purchase of buildings (excluding those provided for the welfare of persons or as living accommodation for persons) and structural improvements on land for the purposes of an activity relating to in-house research. (7) Notwithstanding subsection (6), “capital expenditure” shall not include capital expenditure incurred on buildings (which are used as living accommodation for persons), plant and machinery where such buildings, plant or machinery are provided wholly or partly for the use of a director or an individual who is a member of the management, administrative or clerical staff. Investment tax allowance for application under section 26 F which has been approved under section 27F 29G. (1) Where a company whic h has been granted approval under section 27F has incurred in the basis period for a year of assessment in respect of a promoted activity or promoted product in areas of new and emerging technologies or in respect of a company establishing a medical devices testing laboratory or upgrading an existing medical 

100 Laws of Malaysia ACT 327 devices testing laboratory in Malaysia capital expenditure for the purposes of that promoted activity or promoted product, there shall be given to the company for that year of assessment an investment t ax allowance of sixty per cent of that expenditure. (2) An allowance for expenditure given under subsection (1)— (a) subject to subsection (4), shall be given only for the year of assessment in the basis period for which that expenditure was incurred; (b) shall be given in respect of expenditure incurred within five years from the date from which the approval is to take effect: Provided that where a company incurs capital expenditure from the date from which the approval is to take effect referred to in paragraph (2)(b) in relation to a business which it is about to carry on in respect of a promoted activity or promoted product in areas of new and emerging technologies or in respect of a company establishing a medical devices testing laboratory or upgrading an existing medical devices testing laboratory in Malaysia or in respect of, that expenditure shall be deemed to be incurred in the basis period in which it commences to carry on the business. (3) Where an allowance is given to a company under subsection (1) for a year of assessment, so much of the statutory income of the business of the company in respect of a promoted activity or promoted product for that year of assessment as is equal to the amount of the allowance (or to the aggregate amount of any such a llowance, as the case may be) shall be exempt from tax under the principal Act. (4) Where, by reason of an insufficiency or absence of statutory income of the business of the company in respect of a promoted activity or promoted product for a year of assessment, effect cannot be given or cannot be given in full to any allowance to which the company is entitled under this section for that year in relation to the source consisting of that business, then, notwithstanding subsections (1), (2) and (3), so much of the allowance in question as cannot be given for that year shall be deemed to be an allowance to be given to the company under this section for the first subsequent year of assessment for which there is statutory income from that business, and so on for 

Promotion Of Investments 101 subsequent years of assessment until the company has received the whole of the allowance to which it is so entitled. (5) Where any income is exempt from tax by virtue of subsection (3), section 23 shall apply to that income (with any necessary modificat ions) as it applies to income exempt under section 22A. (6) Subsections 29(7) and (8) relating to capital expenditure shall apply, mutatis mutandis, for the purposes of this section. Investment tax allowance for application under section 26G which has been approved under section 27G 29H. (1) Where a technical or vocational training company which has been granted approval under subsection 27 G(1) has incurred in the basis period for a year of assessment in respect of an activity relating to technical or vocational training capital expenditure for the purposes of that activity, there shall be given to the company for that year of assessment an investment tax allowance of one hundred per cent of that expenditure. (1A) Where a private higher education insti tution which has been granted approval under subsection 27 G(2) has incurred in the basis period for a year of assessment, in respect of an activity relating to qualifying science courses, capital expenditure for the purposes of that activity, the instituti on shall be given for that year of assessment an investment tax allowance of one hundred per cent of that expenditure. (2) An allowance for expenditure given under subsection (1) or (1A)— (a) subject to subsection (4), shall be given only for the year of assessment in the basis period for which that expenditure was incurred; (b) shall be given in respect of expenditure incurred within ten years from the date from which the approval is to take effect: Provided that where a company incurs capital expenditure fro m the date from which the approval is to take effect referred to in 

102 Laws of Malaysia ACT 327 paragraph (2)(b) in relation to a business which it is about to carry on in respect of an activity relating to technical or vocational training or qualifying science courses, that expendi ture shall be deemed to be incurred in the basis period in which it commences to carry on the business. (3) Where an allowance is given to a company under subsection (1) or (1A) for a year of assessment, so much of the statutory income of the business of the company in respect of an activity relating to technical or vocational training, or qualifying science courses for that year of assessment as is equal to the amount of the allowance (or to the aggregate amount of any such allowance, as the case may be) shall be exempt from tax under the principal Act: Provided that the amount so exempt shall not exceed seventy per cent of the statutory income of that business of the company for that year of assessment. (4) Where, by reason of an insufficiency or absenc e of statutory income of the business of the company in respect of an activity relating to technical or vocational training, or qualifying science courses for a year of assessment, effect cannot be given or cannot be given in full to any allowance to which the company is entitled under this section for that year in relation to the source consisting of that business, then, notwithstanding subsections (1), (1 A), (2) and (3), so much of the allowance in question as cannot be given for that year shall be deemed to be an allowance to be given to the company under this section for the first subsequent year of assessment for which there is statutory income from that business, and so on for subsequent years of assessment until the company has received the whole of the allowance to which it is so entitled. (5) Where any income is exempt from tax by virtue of subsection (3), section 23 shall apply to that income (with any necessary modifications) as it applies to income exempt under section 22A. (6) For the purposes of this section and subject to subsection (7), “capital expenditure”, in relation to technical or vocational training, or qualifying science courses means capital expenditure incurred on a building or on any plant and machinery used in Malaysia in connection with and for the purposes of an activity relating to training or courses, as the case may be. 

Promotion Of Investments 103 (7) Notwithstanding subsection (6), “capital expenditure” shall not include capital expenditure incurred on buildings (which are used as living accommodation f or persons), plant and machinery where such buildings, plant or machinery are provided wholly or partly for the use of a director or an individual who is a member of the management, administrative or clerical staff. 29I. (Deleted by Act A1468). Investment tax allowance for application under section 26 I which has been approved under section 27I 29J. (1) This section shall apply to a company which has been granted approval for the purposes of investment tax allowance under subsection 27I(1) provided such application is received on or after a date to be prescribed under section 4D. (2) Where a company which has been granted approval under subsection 27 I(1) has incurred, in the basis period for a year of assessment in respect of a promoted activity or promo ted product, capital expenditure for the purposes of that promoted activity or promoted product, the company shall be given for that year of assessment an investment tax allowance of one hundred per cent of that expenditure. (2A) Where a company which has been granted approval under subsection 27 I(1A) has incurred, in the basis period for a year of assessment in respect of a promoted activity or promoted product in relation to renewable energy for own consumption, capital expenditure for that purpose, the company shall be given for that year of assessment an investment tax allowance of one hundred per cent of that expenditure. (3) An allowance for expenditure given under subsection (2)— (a) shall be given only for the year of assessment in the basis period for which that expenditure was incurred; and (b) shall be given in respect of expenditure incurred within five years from the date from which the approval is to take effect: 

104 Laws of Malaysia ACT 327 Provided that— (i) where a company incurs capital expenditure from the date from which the approval is to take effect referred to in paragraph (b) in relation to a business which it is about to carry on in respect of a promoted activity or promoted product, that expenditure shall be deemed to be incurred in the basis period in which it commenc es to carry on the business; and (ii) where the company incurs capital expenditure prior to its application under section 26I and the approval under section 27 I, the allowance is granted retrospectively from a date not earlier than a date to be prescribed under section 4D. (3A) An allowance for expenditure given under subsection (2A)— (a) shall be given only for the year of assessment in the basis period for which that expenditure was incurred; and (b) shall be given in respect of expenditure incurred within five years from the date from which the approval is to take effect: Provided that— (i) where a company incurs capital expenditure from the date from which the approval is to take effect referred to in paragraph (b) in relation to a business which it is about to carry on in respect of a promoted activity or promoted product, that expenditure shall be deemed to be incurred in the basis period in which it commences to carry on the business; and (ii) where the company incurs capital expenditure prior to its application under section 26I and the approval under section 27I, the allowance is granted retrospectively from the date such activity or product is prescribed by the Minister as a promoted activity or promoted product under section 4D. (4) Subsections 29 AA(4), (5), (6) and (7) shall apply, mutatis mutandis, for the purposes of this section. 

Promotion Of Investments 105 Investment tax allowance for application under section 26 J which has been approved under section 27J 29K. (1) This section shall apply to a company which has been granted approval for the purposes of investment tax allowance under section 27J provided such application is received on or after a date to be prescribed under section 4E. (2) Where a company which has been granted approval under section 27J has incurred, in the basis period for a year of assessment in respect of a promoted activity or promoted product, capital expenditure for the purposes of that promoted activity or promoted product, the company shall be given for that year of assessment an investment tax allowance of sixty per cent of that expenditure. (3) An allowance for expenditure given under subsection (2)— (a) shall be given only for the year of assessment in the basis period for which that expenditure was incurred; and (b) shall be given in respect of expenditure incurr ed within five years from the date from which the approval is to take effect: Provided that— (i) where a company incurs capital expenditure from the date from which the approval is to take effect referred to in paragraph (b) in relation to a business which i t is about to carry on in respect of a promoted activity or promoted product, that expenditure shall be deemed to be incurred in the basis period in which it commences to carry on the business; and (ii) where the company incurs capital expenditure prior to its application under section 26J and the approval under section 27 J, the allowance is granted retrospectively from a date not earlier than a date to be prescribed under section 4E. (4) Subsections 29 AA(4), (5), (6) and (7) shall apply mutatis mutandis, for the purposes of this section. 

106 Laws of Malaysia ACT 327 Investment tax allowance for application under section 26K which has been approved under section 27K 29L. (1) This section shall apply to a company which has been granted approval for the purposes of investment tax allowance under section 27K provided such application is received on or after a date as prescribed in the statutory order published in the Gazette under section 4F. (2) In relation to a contract research and development company, and research and development comp any undertaking reinvestment, the company shall be given for that year of assessment an investment tax allowance of one hundred per cent of that additional capital expenditure: (a) an allowance for expenditure given under this subsection— (i) shall be given only for the year of assessment in the basis period for which that expenditure was incurred; and (ii) shall be given in respect of expenditure incurred within ten years from the date from which the approval is to take effect: Provided that where a company incurs capital expenditure from the date from which the approval is to take effect referred to in subparagraph (ii) in relation to a business which it is about to carry on in respect of an activity relating to research and development, that expenditure shall be deemed to be incurred in the basis period in which it commences to carry on the business; (b) where an allowance is given to a company under this subsection for a year of assessment, so much of statutory income of the business of that company in respect of an activity relating to research and development for the basis period of that year of assessment as is equal to the amount of allowance (or to the aggregate amount of any such allowance, as the case may be) shall be exempt from tax under the principal Act for that year of assessment: 

Promotion Of Investments 107 Provided that the amount so exempt shall not exceed seventy per cent of the statutory income of that business of the company for that year of assessment; and (c) subsections 29 D (4), (5), (6) and (7) shall apply, mutatis mutandis, for the purposes of this section. (3) In relation to a company undertaking reinvestment in an activity related to in-house research, that company shall be given for that year of assessment an investment tax allowance of fifty per cent of that additional capital expenditure: (a) an allowance for expenditure given under this subsection— (i) shall be given only for the year of assessment in the basis period for which that expenditure was incurred; and (ii) shall be given in respect of expenditure incurred within ten years from the date from which the approval is to take effect: Provided that where a company incurs capital expenditure from the date from which the approval is to take effect referred to in subparagraph (ii) in relation to a business which it is about to carry on in respect of an activity relating to in -house research, that expenditure shall be deemed to be incurred in the basis period in which it commences to carry on the business; (b) where an allowance is given to a company under this subsection for a year o f assessment, so much of statutory income of a company from the business of that company in respect of an activity relating to in -house research for the basis period of that year of assessment as is equal to the amount of allowance (or to the aggregate amount of any such allowance, as the case may be) shall be exempt from tax under the principal Act for that year of assessment: Provided that the amount so exempt shall not exceed seventy per cent of the statutory income of that business of the company for that year of assessment; and 

108 Laws of Malaysia ACT 327 (c) subsections 29 F(4), (5), (6) and (7) shall apply, mutatis mutandis, for the purposes of this section. (4) In relation to a company undertaking reinvestment to produce value-added products utilizing oil palm biomass, that compan y shall be given for that year of assessment an investment tax allowance of one hundred per cent of that additional capital expenditure— (a) an allowance for expenditure given under this subsection— (i) shall be given only for the year of assessment in the basis period for which that expenditure was incurred; and (ii) shall be given in respect of expenditure incurred within five years from the date from which the approval is to take effect: Provided that where a company incurs capital expenditure from the date from which the approval is to take effect referred to in subparagraph (ii) in relation to a business which it is about to carry on in respect of an activity relating to production of value -added products utilizing oil palm biomass, that expenditure shall be deemed to be incurred in the basis period in which it commences to carry on the business; (b) where an allowance is given to a company under this subsection for a year of assessment, so much of statutory income of a company from the business of that company in respect of a promoted activity or promoted product for the basis period of that year of assessment as is equal to the amount of allowance (or to the aggregate amount of any such allowance, as the case may be) shall be exempt from tax under the principal Act for that year of assessment; and (c) subsections 29B(4), (5), (6), (7) and (8) shall apply, mutatis mutandis, for the purposes of this section. (5) In relation to a company undertaking reinvestment in hotel business and tourist project activities, that company shall be given for 

Promotion Of Investments 109 that year of assessment an investment tax allowance of sixty per cent of that additional capital expenditure— (a) an allowance for expenditure given under this subsection— (i) shall be given only for the year of assessment in the basis period for which that expenditure was incurred; and (ii) shall be given in respect of expenditure incurred within five years from the date from which the approval is to take effect: Provided that— (A) where a company incurs capital expenditure from the date from which the approval is to take effect referred to in subparagraph (ii) in relation to a business which it is about to carry on in respect of a promoted activity or promoted product, that expenditure shall be deemed to be incurred in the basis period in which it commences to carry on the business; and (B) where the company incurs capital expenditure prior to its application under subsection 26K(1) and the approval under subsection 27 K(2), the allowance is granted retrospectively from a date not earlier than 13 September 2003; (b) where an allowance is given a company under this subsection for a year of assessment so much of statut ory income of the business of that company in respect of the promoted activity or promoted product for the basis period of that year of assessment as is equal to the amount of allowance (or to the aggregate amount of any such allowance, as the case may be) shall be exempt from tax under the principal Act for that year of assessment: Provided that the amount so exempt shall not exceed seventy per cent of the statutory income of that business of the company for that year of assessment; and 

110 Laws of Malaysia ACT 327 (c) subsections 29 A(6), (7), (8) and (9) shall apply, mutatis mutandis, for the purposes of this section. (6) In relation to a company undertaking reinvestment i n activities or products other than those specified in subsections (2), (3), (4) and (5), that company shall be given for that year of assessment an investment tax allowance of sixty per cent of that additional capital expenditure— (a) an allowance for expenditure given under this subsection— (i) shall be given only for the year of assessment in the basis period for which that expenditure was incurred; and (ii) shall be given in respect of expenditure incurred within five years from the date from which the approval is to take effect: Provided that where a company incurs capital expenditure from the date from which the approval is to take effect referred to in subparagraph (ii) in relation to a business which it is about to carry on in respect of an activity relating to activities or products other than those specified in subsections (2), (3), (4) and (5), that expenditure shall be deemed to be incurred in the basis period in which it commences to carry on the business; (b) where an allowance is given a company under this subsection for a year of assessment, so much of statutory income of the business of that company in respect of the promoted activity or promoted product for the basis period of that year of assessment as is equal to the amount of allowance (or to the aggregate amount of any such allowance, as the case may be) shall be exempt from tax under the principal Act for that year of assessment: Provided that the amount so exempt shall not exceed seventy per cent of the statutory income of that business of the company for that year of assessment; and 

Promotion Of Investments 111 (c) subsections 29 A(6), (7), (8) and (9) shall apply, mutatis mutandis, for the purposes of this section. 29M. (Deleted by Act A1468). Investment tax allowance for application under section 26M which has been approved under section 27M 29N. (1) This section shall apply to a company which has been granted approval for the purposes of investment tax allowance under section 27 M provided such application is received on or after 11 September 2004. (2) Where a company whi ch has been granted approval under section 27M has incurred in the basis period for a year of assessment in respect of halal food product, capital expenditure for the purposes of such product, the company shall be given for that year of assessment an inves tment tax allowance of one hundred per cent of that expenditure. (3) An allowance for expenditure given under subsection (2)— (a) shall be given only in the basis period for the year of assessment for which that expenditure was incurred; and (b) shall be given in respect of expenditure incurred within five years from the date from which the approval is to take effect: Provided that— (i) where a company incurs capital expenditure from the date from which the approval is to take effect referred to in paragraph (b) in relation to a business which it is about to carry on in respect of a promoted activity or promoted products, that expenditure shall be deemed to be incurred in the basis period in which it commences to carry on the business; and (ii) where the company incurs capital expenditure prior to its application under section 26 M and the approval under section 27 M, the allowance is granted 

112 Laws of Malaysia ACT 327 retrospectively from a date not earlier than 11 September 2004. (4) Subsections 29 AA(4), (5), (6) and (7) shall apply, mutatis mutandis, for the purposes of this section. Investment tax allowance for application under section 26N which has been approved under section 27N 29O. (1) This section shall apply to a company which has been granted approval for the purposes of investment t ax allowance under section 27 N provided such application is received on or after 1 October 2005. (2) Where a company which has been granted approval under section 27N has incurred, in the basis period for a year of assessment in respect of conserving ene rgy for own consumption, capital expenditure for the purposes of such activity, the company shall be given for that year of assessment an investment tax allowance of sixty per cent of that expenditure. (2A) Notwithstanding subsection (2), for an applicati on received from 8 September 2007 until 31 December 2015, the company shall be given for that year of assessment an investment tax allowance of one hundred per cent of that expenditure. (3) An allowance for expenditure given under subsection (2) or (2A)— (a) shall be given only in the basis period for the year of assessment for which that expenditure was incurred; and (b) shall be given in respect of expenditure incurred within five years from the date from which the approval is to take effect: Provided that where a company incurs capital expenditure from the date from which the approval is to take effect referred to in paragraph (b) in relation to a business which it is about to carry on in respect of a promoted activity, that expenditure shall be deemed to be incurred in the basis period 

Promotion Of Investments 113 in which it commences to carry on the business and where the company incurs capital expenditure— (i) prior to its application under section 26 N and the approval under paragraph (a) of the proviso to subsection 27 N(1), the allowan ce is granted retrospectively from a date not earlier than 1 October 2005; or (ii) prior to its application under section 26 N and the approval under paragraph (aa) of the proviso to subsection 27 N(1), the allowance is granted retrospectively from a date not e arlier than 8 September 2007. (4) For the purposes of this section and subject to subsection (5), the term “capital expenditure”, in relation to a company conserving energy for own use, means capital expenditure incurred in respect of plant and machinery used in connection and for the purpose of that activity. (5) Notwithstanding subsection (4), “capital expenditure” shall not include capital expenditure incurred on buildings (which are used as living accommodation for persons), plant and machinery where such buildings, plant or machinery are provided wholly or partly for the use of a director or an individual who is a member of the management, administrative or clerical staff. (6) For the purposes of subsection (2) and subparagraph (3)(b)(i) of the proviso, subsections 29A(5), (6) and (7) shall apply mutatis mutandis. (7) For the purposes of subsection (2A) and subparagraph (3)(b)(ii) of the proviso, subsections 29AA(4), (5) and (6) shall apply mutatis mutandis. 29P. (Deleted by Act A1400). 

114 Laws of Malaysia ACT 327 Determination of capital expenditure in respect of promoted activity or promoted product subject to goods and services tax for investment tax allowance 29Q. Where a company which has been granted approval under section 27, 27A, 27C, 27D, 27E, 27F, 27G, 27I, 27J, 27K, 27M or 27N has incurred in the basis period for a year of assessment capital expenditure in respect of promoted activity or promoted product for the period specified under paragraph 29(2)(b), (c) or (d), paragraph 29A(3)(b), (c) or (d), paragraph 29 AA(3)(b), 29 B(2)(b), 29 D(2)(b), 29E(2)(b), 29F(2)(b), 29G(2)(b), 29H(2)(b), 29J(2)(b), 29K(2)(b), subparagraph 29L(2)(a)(ii), 29 L(3)(a)(ii), 29 L(4)(a)(ii), 29L(5)(a)(ii), 29 L(6)(a)(ii), paragraph 29N(3)(b) or 29O(3)(b), the capital expenditure incurred by the company shall not include any amount paid or to be paid in respect of goods and services tax by that company if the company is liable to be registered under the *Goods and Services Tax Act 2014 and has failed to do so, or if the company is entitled to credit that amount as input tax under that Act. Adjustment of capital expenditure incurred which is subject to goods and services tax 29R. (1) Where in the basis period for a year of assessment a company has incurred capital expenditure under this Act a nd such capital expenditure is subject to any adjustment made in respect of input tax for a period specified under the *Goods and Services Tax Act 2014, the amount of such expenditure for that asset shall be adjusted in the basis period for the year of ass essment in which the period of adjustment relating to the asset as provided under the *Goods and Services Tax Act 2014 ends. (2) In the event the adjustment of the amount of the capital expenditure made under subsection (1) results in— (a) an additional amount, such amount shall be deemed to be part of the capital expenditure incurred for the purpose of this Act, and subject to sections 29, 29A, 29B, 29D, 29E, 29F, 29G, 29H,  *NOTE—This Act has been repealed by the Goods and Services Tax (Repeal) Act 2018 [ Act 805]—see section 3 of Act 805. 

Promotion Of Investments 115 29J, 29K, 29L and 29O, there shall be given to the company for a year of assessment a n allowance in respect of such additional amount; or (b) a reduced amount, any amount of allowance that ought not to have been given under this Act in consequence of such reduction shall be part of the statutory income of that company from a source consisting of a business in the basis period the adjustment is made. (3) Notwithstanding subsection (1), where a company has incurred capital expenditure in relation to an asset, and the asset is disposed of at any time in the period of adjustment specified under the *Goods and Services Tax Act 2014, the adjustment to such expenditure shall be made in the basis period for the year of assessment in which the disposal is made. (4) Where an adjustment is made in respect of the input tax under the *Goods and Services T ax Act 2014, the Director General may make a computation or recomputation of any allowance made under this Act or the amount of statutory income of a company for a year of assessment in the similar manner as provided under this section, in the basis period for the year of assessment the adjustment is made or at any time as may be necessary to give effect to such adjustment. 30. (Deleted by Act A1468). Withdrawal of investment tax allowance in relation to disposed asset 30A. (1) For the purposes of Chapt er 2 of Part II, where capital expenditure is incurred on acquisition of any asset and such asset is disposed of at any time within a period of five years from the date of the acquisition, the investment tax allowance for such capital expenditure shall be deemed to have not been given to the company to which it would otherwise be entitled.  *NOTE—This Act has been repealed by the Goods and Services Tax (Repeal) Act 2018 [ Act 805]—see section 3 of Act 805. 

116 Laws of Malaysia ACT 327 (2) For the purpose of subsection (1), “asset” means a factory, plant, machinery or building referred to in the definition of capital expenditure in subsections 29(7), 2 9A(8), 29 AA(7), 29 B(7), 29 D(6), 29E(6), 29F(6), 29G(6), 29 H(6), 29J(4), 29K(4), paragraphs 29 L(2)(c), 29L(3)(c), 29 L(4)(c), 29 L(5)(c), 29 L(6)(c), subsections 29 N(4) and 29O(4). Meaning of company in relation to agriculture 31. For the purposes of this Chapter, in the case of an application for approval for an investment tax allowance in respect of a promoted activity or promoted product in relation to agriculture, “company” includes an agro -based co -operative society, an Area Farmers’ Association, a Fede ral Farmers’ Association, a State Farmers’ Association, an Area Fishermen’s Association, a Federal Fishermen’s Association, a State Fishermen’s Association and a sole proprietorship, partnership or association solely engaged in agriculture: Provided that section 23 shall only apply to a company incorporated under any written law. Chapter 2A — Industrial Adjustment Allowance 31A–31E. (Deleted by Act A1318). Chapter 3 — Abatement of Adjusted Income 32–33. (Deleted by Act A1318). 33A. (Deleted by Act A862). 34–35. (Deleted by Act A1318). Chapter 4 — Abatement of Statutory Income for Exports 36–38. (Deleted by Act A1318). 

Promotion Of Investments 117 Chapter 5 — Export Allowance 39–40A. (Deleted by Act A1318). Chapter 6 — Deductions for Promotion of Exports Deductions for promotion of exports 41. (1) The Minister of Finance may make rules prescribing deductions in respect of outgoings and expenses incurred for the promotion of exports from Malaysia. (2) Rules of the kind referred to in subsection (1) may include provisions prescribing— (a) the kinds of outgoings and expenses to which the rules relate; (b) conditions allowing the deductions to which the rules relate; and (c) the ratio to be applied, for the purpose of ascertaining any such deduction, to the amount of any such outgoi ngs and expenses. (3) The rules contained in the Schedule shall be deemed to have been made under this section and may be amended or revoked accordingly. (4) Except for the rules contained in the Schedule, section 149 and subsection 154(2) of the princip al Act shall apply to any rules made under this section. Chapter 7—Infrastructure Allowance 41A–41B. (Deleted by Act A1468). 

118 Laws of Malaysia ACT 327 PART III SUPPLEMENTAL Power of entry, etc. 42. (1) Any public officer authorized in writing by the Minister or the Minister of Finance may at all reasonable times— (a) have access to— (i) any premises occupied by a company or used for the storage of the company’s goods or products; and (ii) any records or accounts of the company, for the purposes of checking the production, composit ion, storage or packing of any such goods or products and generally for the purpose of ensuring the implementation of this Act; and (b) take samples of any such goods or products for any such purpose. (2) Any person who obstructs a public officer in the exercise of any power conferred by subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding two thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding one year or to both. Power to make rules and regulations 43. The Minister may make rules and regulations— (a) without prejudice to the generality of subsection 2(2), specifying any necessary modifications in the application of this Act to any particular industry which is not a manufacturing industry; (b) prescribing anything required by this Act to be prescribed; and 

Promotion Of Investments 119 (c) generally for facilitating the operation of this Act. Separate accounts 43A. (1) Where a company has been granted a pioneer certificate under section 7 or an approval under section 27, 27 A, 27C, 27D, 27E, 27F or 27G, subsection 27 I(1) or section 27 J, 27K or 27M, it shall not, before the end of its tax relief period, or the period specified in paragraph 29(2) (b), (c) or (d), 29 A(3)(b), (c) or (d), 29 AA(3)(b), 29B(2)(b), 29 D(2)(b), 29 E(2)(b), 29 F(2)(b), 29 G(2)(b), 29H(2)(b), 29J(3)(b), 29 K(3)(b), subparagraph 29 L(2)(a)(ii), (3)(a)(ii), (4)(a)(ii), (5)(a)(ii), (6)(a)(ii) or paragraph 29N(3)(b) carry on any business other than a business where the whole of the gross income is derived from its promoted a ctivity or promoted product without informing the Minister. (2) Where a company referred to in subsection (1) carries on a business other than the business where the whole of the gross income is derived from its promoted activity or promoted product, it shall keep separate accounts in respect of that business. (3) Any company which has been granted pioneer certificate under section 7 or an approval under section 27, 27 A, 27 C, 27 D, 27 E, 27 F or 27 G, subsection 27 J(1) or section 27 J, 27 K or 27 M in respect o f a promoted activity or promoted product or an additional promoted activity or promoted product shall keep separate accounts in respect of the business relating to that activity or product or that additional activity or additional product. Repeal 44. Subject to the following provisions, the Investment Incentives Act 1968 [Act 199] is hereby repealed. Savings 45. Notwithstanding its repeal, the Investment Incentives Act 1968 (hereinafter in this Act referred to as the “repealed law”) shall remain in full force and effect and continue to apply to any company for all 

120 Laws of Malaysia ACT 327 purposes and in all respects in relation to any certificate issued or approval granted t o a company under the repealed law before the commencement of this Act for so long as the same rema ins valid and in force, and accordingly— (a) the r epealed law shall, in relation thereto, apply to the company for any year of assessment whether before or subsequent to the commencement of this Act; and (b) where in order to give effect to any such certificate or approval, it is necessary to make any subsidiary legislation under the repealed law, the authority having the power thereunder to make the same may make the necessary subsidiary legislation. 46–47. (Deleted by Act A656). Application of this Act to tax relief period 48. (1) Notwithstanding section 45, where the tax relief period of a company which has been issued with a pioneer certificate or granted an approval under section 12 A of the repealed law has not ended at 1 January 1986, the company may ap ply to the Minister for approval for this Act to apply in respect of its tax relief period. (2) Where the Minister grants an approval in respect of an application made under subsection (1), the repealed law relating to the tax relief period of that company shall cease to apply and this Act shall apply in respect of the tax relief period of the company: Provided that the total tax relief period of the company shall not exceed five years from its production day which has been determined under the repealed l aw but the company shall, at the end of that tax relief period and subject to section 14 A, be eligible to apply for an extension of that tax relief period under section 14A. 

Promotion Of Investments 121 Capital expenditure incurred on plant and machinery in hotel business 49. (1) Where a company has been granted an approval under section 30KA of the repealed law and has incurred capital expenditure on or after 1 January 1986 on plant and machinery or other facilities used in connection with the hotel business, the company may apply to the Minister for approval for subparagraph 29(7)(c) of this Act to apply to such capital expenditure in relation to a hotel business: Provided that such capital expenditure is incurred within five years from the date of approval granted under secti on 30ka of the repealed law. (2) Where the Minister grants an approval in respect of an application under subsection (1), subparagraph 29(7) (c) of this Act shall apply to such expenditure. Application for an incentive of a similar character 50. (1) Where a company has been granted an approval in respect of an incentive under section 5, 12A, 12B, 26, 30KA or 30Q of the repealed law but as at 1 January 1986 or at any time thereafter, its tax relief period has not commenced or the company has not incurred capital expenditure for purposes of section 26, 30 KA or 30 Q of the repealed law the company may apply for an incentive under this Act where the incentive applied for is substantially of a similar character to that for which an approval was granted under the repealed law. (2) Where the Minister grants an approval in respect of an application made under subsection (1), the approval granted under the repealed law shall be deemed to have been withdrawn. Application for investment tax allowance by a company g ranted an incentive under the repealed law 50A. A company which has been granted an incentive under the repealed law shall only be eligible to apply for investment tax allowance under section 26 in respect of a promoted activity or 

122 Laws of Malaysia ACT 327 promoted product other than the activity or product for which an incentive was granted under the repealed law. Eligibility of companies under repealed law for industrial adjustment allowance 50AA. A company which has been granted an incentive or investment tax credit under t he repealed law shall only be eligible to apply for industrial adjustment allowance in respect of a manufacturing activity or manufactured product other than the activity or product for which an incentive was granted under the repealed law or in respect of capital expenditure other than the capital expenditure on which investment tax credit has been granted under the repealed law: Provided that where a company which has been granted an incentive or investment tax credit under the repealed law carries on th e same activity or manufactures the same product after the end of the period for which the incentive or investment tax credit was granted, the company may apply for an industrial adjustment allowance only in respect of capital expenditure in relation to su ch activity or product incurred by the company after the end of the period for which the incentive or investment tax credit was granted. Eligibility of company under repealed law for abatement of adjusted income or export allowance 50B. (1) Where a comp any has been granted an incentive under section 5, 12 A or 12 B of the repealed law, that company shall be eligible for abatement of adjusted income or statutory income, as the case may be, under section 32, 33, 34 or 36 or for export allowance under section 39 at the end of its tax relief period under the repealed law. (2) Subject to subsections (3) and (4), where a company has been granted an approval under section 26 or 30 P of the repealed law, that company shall be eligible for abatement of adjusted inco me or statutory income, as the case may be, under section 32, 33, 34 or 36 or for export allowance under section 39 at the end of the period of five years specified in paragraph 26(3)(b) or 30Q(2)(b) of the repealed law. 

Promotion Of Investments 123 (3) A company which has been grant ed an approval under section 26 or 30P of the repealed law may, at any time during the period specified in paragraph 26(3)(b) or 30Q(2)(b) of that law, surrender the approval by giving a notice in writing to the Minister, and where the Minister is satisfi ed with the reasons for the surrender of such approval, or that the company has complied with the terms and conditions imposed under subsection 26(7) or 30 P with any other provisions of the repealed law, the surrender shall have effect from a date specified by the Minister in the notice approving such surrender and such date shall not be earlier than the date the notice is received by the Minister: Provided that in respect of a notice of surrender received by the Minister on or after 1 January 1986 and on or before the 31 March 1987 and upon the Minister being satisfied as provided in this subsection, the Minister, when approving such surrender, may specify a date which is not earlier than 1 January 1986 as the date the surrender shall have effect. (4) Where a company— (a) surrenders an approval granted to it under section 26 or 30 P of the repealed law; and (b) the surrender becomes effective and is in accordance with subsection (3), that company shall, with effect from the day following the date of such surrender, be eligible for abatement of adjusted income or statutory income, as the case may be, under section 32, 33, 34 or 36 or for export allowance under section 39. Application under repealed law 51. (1) Where an application is made under the repealed law and it is pending on the date of coming into force of this Act, (a) the defined authority shall consider such application in accordance with the provisions of this Act if there are corresponding provisions in this Act— 

124 Laws of Malaysia ACT 327 (i) for such an application; or (ii) for an application which, in the opinion of the defined authority, is of substantially similar character or is in respect of a substantially similar matter; or (b) if there are no corresponding provisions in this Act, or where the defined authority is satisfied that i t is for any reason not practicable to consider such application in accordance with the provisions of this Act, such application shall be considered by the defined authority in accordance with the provisions of the repealed law. (2) Where an approval has been granted to a company under paragraph (1)(a), this Act shall apply to the company for all purposes and in all respects in relation to such grant: Provided that where an approval which has been granted to a company is to take effect from a date prior t o the commencement of this Act, this Act shall be deemed to apply to such grant from the date specified in the grant notwithstanding that such date is earlier than the date of the coming into force of this Act. (3) Where an approval has been granted to a company under paragraph (1) (b), the repealed law shall continue to apply to the company for all purposes and in all respects in relation to such grant until its expiration or until it ceases to have effect. Concurrence of the Minister of Finance 52. The Minister in exercising his powers under sections 48, 49 and 50 shall act in concurrence with the Minister of Finance. Application of sections 27 and 29 of the repealed law 53. (1) Where a company has incurred any approved outgoings or expenses prior to 1 January 1986 in connection with the promotion of exports from Malaysia, section 27 of the repealed law shall, notwithstanding the repeal, apply to such approved outgoings and expenses. 

Promotion Of Investments 125 (2) Where a company exports products manufactured in Malaysia prior to 1 January 1986, section 29 of the repealed law shall, notwithstanding the repeal, apply in respect of such products. Functions of a public officer 54. For the purposes of sections 45 to 50 and 53, any function of a public officer under the repea led law may be exercised by any public officer referred to in section 42 of this Act or section 134 of the principal Act whose office substantially corresponds to that of an officer by whom the function was exercisable under that law. References to repealed law 55. Unless the context otherwise requires, a reference in a written law to any provision of the repealed law shall be construed in relation to the year of assessment 1987 and subsequent years of assessment as a reference to the corresponding provision (if any) of this Act. SCHEDULE [Subsection 41(3)] INCOME TAX (PROMOTION OF EXPORTS) RULES1986 Citation and commencement 1. (1) These Rules may be cited as the Income Tax (Promotion of Exports) Rules 1986. (2) These Rules shall have effect with respect to approved outgoings and expenses incurred on or after 1 January 1986. Interpretation 2. In these Rules, unless the context otherwise requires— “approved outgoings and expenses” means outgoings and expenses allowable as a deduction under rule 4. 

126 Laws of Malaysia ACT 327 Company resident in Malaysia eligible for deduction 3. Every company resident in Malaysia for the basis year for a year of assessment shall be eligible for the deduction under these Rules for that year. Deduction of certain outgoings and expenses 4. (1) Subject to these Rules, for the purpose of ascertaining under the principal Act the adjusted income of a company from its business for the basis period for a year of assessment, there shall be allowed as a deduction any outgoings and expenses of the kind described in paragraph (2) which— (a) were incurred by that company during that basis period with respect to that business; and (b) were incurred primarily and principally for the purpose of seeking opportunities, or in creating or increasing a deman d, for the export of goods or agricultural produce manufactured, produced, assembled, processed, packed, graded or sorted in Malaysia. (2) The outgoings and expenses referred to in paragraph (1) are— (a) expenses incurred in respect of publicity and advertisements in any media outside Malaysia; (b) expenses directly attributable to the provision of samples without charge to prospective customers outside Malaysia, including the cost of delivery of the samples; (c) expenses directly attributable to carrying out export market research or the obtaining of export marketing information; (d) expenses directly attributable to the preparation of tenders for the supply of goods or agricultural produce (not being goods or agricultural produce of the same kind and specifications as those regularly manufactured, produced or supplied by the company) to prospective customers outside Malaysia; (e) expenses by way of fares in respect of travel to a country outside Malaysia by a representative of the company, being travel necessarily underta ken for the purpose of negotiating or concluding contracts for sales of goods or agricultural produce on behalf of the company or for the purpose of participating in trade fairs or trade or industrial exhibitions approved by the Minister, and actual expenses, subject to a maximum of three hundred ringgit per day, for accommodation and a maximum of one hundred and fifty ringgit per day for sustenance for the whole of the period commencing with the representative’s departure from Malaysia and ending with his return to Malaysia; 

Promotion Of Investments 127 (f) expenses for giving technical information to persons outside Malaysia relating generally to goods or agricultural produce of the company offered for sale, excluding expenses for giving technical information to purchasers after purchase; (g) expenses directly attributable to the provision of exhibits for trade fairs or trade or industrial exhibitions which are held outside Malaysia and approved by the Minister; (h) expenses for services rendered for public relations work connected with export; (i) expenses directly incurred for participating in trade fairs or trade or industrial exhibitions approved by the Minister other than the expenses specified in subparagraphs (e) and (g); (j) expenses for the cost of maintaining sales offices overseas for the promotion of exports from Malaysia; (k) professional fees incurred in packaging design on condition that the goods are of export quality and the company employs local professional services. (3) Deductions allowed under this rule shall be in addition to any de ductions allowable under section 33 of the principal Act. (4) No deduction shall be allowed under this rule in respect of any outgoings expenses or other payments of the kind mentioned in subsection 39(1) of the principal Act. (5) Where the amount of any outgoings and expenses, the whole of which would have been allowable as a deduction under these Rules but for this paragraph, exceeds the amount which in the opinion of the Director General would reasonably be expected to be incurred in the ordinary cours e of the business with respect to which those outgoings and expenses were incurred, the Director General may to the extent of that excess disallow that amount as a deduction under these Rules. (6) For the purpose of paragraph (1), where two basis periods overlap, the period common to both shall be deemed to fall in the first basis period only. Pioneer company 5. Notwithstanding section 21 where a company which has incurred outgoings and expenses allowed under rule 4 is a pioneer company, then– (a) for the purpose of computing its income for any accounting period in respect of its pioneer business under that section, no deductions shall be made under these Rules; 

128 Laws of Malaysia ACT 327 (b) all deductions under these Rules which but for paragraph (a) of this rule would have fallen to be made for the purpose of computing its income from its pioneer business under that section shall be accumulated, and the aggregate amount thereof shall be allowed as a deduction under these Rules for the purpose of ascertaining its income from its post -pioneer business for the first basis period appropriate to the post-pioneer business for a year of assessment. Non-application of Rules 6. These Rules shall not apply to any of the outgoings and expenses referred to in rule 4 which are incurred in relation to the export of any of the products excluded for the purposes of Chapters 4 and 5. 

129 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 327 PROMOTION OF INVESTMENTS ACT 1986 LIST OF AMENDMENTS Amending law Short Title In force from Act A656 Promotion of Investments (Amendment) Act 1986 011986 Act A715 Promotion of Investments (Amendment) Act 1988 011989; year of assessment 1990 and subsequent years of assessment Act A751 Promotion of Investments (Amendment) Act 1990 011989; s. 9, para.10(a), s. 13 to 17 and s. 22: 011986 and year of assessment 1987 and subsequent years of assessment; s. 11 dan 20: 011990 and year of assessment 1991 and subsequent years of assessment; s. 4 to 7: 011991 and year of assessment 1992 and subsequent years of assessment Act 438 Free Zones Act 1990 051991 Act A862 Promotion of Investments (Amendment) Act 1993 011991 and year of assessment 1992 and subsequent years of assessment: para 2(a): 271990; para 2(d), 25(a), 25(c), subpara. 25(b)(i), s.21, 23, 26 and 27: 

130 Laws of Malaysia ACT 327 Amending law Short Title In force from year of assessment 1993 and subsequent years of assessment; s. 14 on or after 011994; para. 17(a) and 17(b): 011986 and year of assessment 1987 and subsequent years of assessment; s.19, 20 and 22: 01 1992 Act A877 Promotion of Inv estments (Amendment) Act 1994 011993 and year of assessment 1994 and subsequent years of assessment except s. 2: 101992 Act A900 Promotion of Investments (Amendment)(No.2) Act 1994 291993 and year of assessment of 1994 and subsequent years of assessment s. 4, 5, 7, 11, 12 and 15: 201994; s. 6: year of assessment 1991 and subsequent years of assessment Act 531 Finance Act 1995 281994 and year of assessment 1995 and subsequent years of assessment Act A993 Promotion of Investments (Amendment) Act 1997 251996 and years of assessment 1995 and subsequent years of assessment 

Promotion Of Investments 131 Amending law Short Title In force from P.U. (A) 170/2001 Income Tax (Promotion of Exports) (Amendment) Rules 2001 012001 P.U. (A) 267/2003 Income Tax (Promotion of Exports) (Amendment) Rules 2003 From the year of assessment 2002 Act A1318 Promotion of Investments (Amendment) Act 2007 See section 1 of Act A1318 Act A1400 Promotion of Investments (Amendment) Act 2011 See section 1 of Act A1400 Act A1468 Promotion of Investments (Amendment) Act 2014 See subsections 1(2) to (33) of Act A1468 Act 773 Finance Act 2015 Year of assessment 2015 and subsequent years of assessment Act 812 Finance Act 2018 s. 32 : 282018; s. 36, 37 and 62: year of assessment 2019 and subsequent years of assessment; s. 33, 34 and 35: 01 2019 Act 833 Finance Act 2021 012022 

132 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 327 PROMOTION OF INVESTMENTS ACT 1986 LIST OF SECTIONS AMENDED Section Amending authority In force from 1 Act A656 011986 2 Act A656 011986 Act A715 011989 Act A751 011989 Act A862 271990 Year of assessment 1993 and subsequent years of assessment Act A900 291993 Act 531 281994 Act A993 251996 Act A1318 See section 1 of Act A1318 Act A1468 See subsections 1(1) to (33) of Act A1468 Act 773 Year of assessment 2015 and subsequent years of assessment Act 812 282018 Act 833 012022 4 Act A862 011991 Act A1318 See section 1 of Act A1318 4A Act A862 011991 4B Act A900 291993 Act 531 281994 Act A1318 See section 1 of Act A1318 Act A1468 See subsections 1(1) to (33) of Act A1468 4c Act A900 291993 Act A1468 See subsections 1(1) to (33) of Act A1468 4D–4F Act A1318 See section 1 of Act A1318 

Promotion Of Investments 133 Section Amending authority In force from Title of Chapter 1 Part II Act 833 012022 4G–4L Act 833 012022 5 Act A751 011989 Act A862 011991 Act A900 201994 Act A993 251996 Act A1318 See section 1 of Act A1318 Act A1400 See section 1 of Act A1400 Act A1468 See subsections 1(1) to (33) of Act A1468 6 Act A715 011989 Act A862 011991 Act A900 201994 Act A993 251996 Act A1318 See section 1 of Act A1318 Act A1400 See section 1 of Act A1400 Act A1468 See subsections 1(1) to (33) of Act A1468 Act 812 012019 7 Act A656 011986 Act A1318 See section 1 of Act A1318 Act A1468 See subsections 1(1) to (33) of Act A1468 9A Act A1318 See section 1 of Act A1318 Act A1400 See section 1 of Act A1400 10 Act A656 011986 11 Act A656 011986 12 Act A1318 See section 1 of Act A1318 14A Act A656 011986 Act A715 011989 Act A862 011991 

134 Laws of Malaysia ACT 327 Section Amending authority In force from 14B Act A862 011991 14C Act A862 011991 Act A1318 See section 1 of Act A1318 16 Act A656 011986 18 Act A656 011986 Act A751 011991 Act A900 Year of assessment 1991 and subsequent years of assessment Act A1318 See section 1 of Act A1318 Act A1400 See section 1 of Act A1400 19 Act A1468 See subsections 1(1) to (33) of Act A1468 21 Act A656 011986 Act A751 011991 Act A862 011991 Act A1400 See section 1 of Act A1400 21A Act A656 011986 Act A751 011991 Act A1318 See section 1 of Act A1318 Act A140 See section 1 of Act A1400 21B Act A862 011991 Act A1400 See section 1 of Act A1400 21BA Act A1318 See section 1 of Act A1318 Act A1400 See section 1 of Act A1400 21C Act A862 011991 Act A993 251996 Act A1400 See section 1 of Act A1400 21D Act A900 201994 Act A1400 See section 1 of Act A1400 

Promotion Of Investments 135 Section Amending authority In force from Act A1468 See subsections 1(1) to (33) of Act A1468 21DA Act A1318 See section 1 of Act A1318 Act A1400 See section 1 of Act A1400 Act A1468 See subsections 1(1) to (33) of Act A1468 21E Act A900 201994 Act A1400 See section 1 of Act A1400 Act 812 012019 21F Act A900 201994 Act A993 251996 Act A1400 See section 1 of Act A1400 Act A1468 See subsections 1(1) to (33) of Act A1468 21G Act A1318 See section 1 of Act A1318 Act A1400 See section 1 of Act A1400 Act A1468 See subsections 1(1) to (33) of Act A1468 21H–21J Act A1318 See section 1 of Act A1318 Act A1400 See section 1 of Act A1400 21K Act A1318 See section 1 of Act A1318 Act A1400 See section 1 of Act A1400 Act A1468 See subsections 1(1) to (33) of Act A1468 21L–21M Act A1318 See section 1 of Act A1318 Act A1400 See section 1 of Act A1400 22 Act A862 011991 Act A900 291993 Act A1318 See section 1 of Act A1318 Act A1400 See section 1 of 

136 Laws of Malaysia ACT 327 Section Amending authority In force from Act A1400 22A Act A1400 See section 1 of Act A1400 Act A1468 See subsections 1(1) to (33) of Act A1468 23 Act A1400 See section 1 of Act A1400 Act A1468 See subsections 1(1) to (33) of Act A1468 24 Act A1318 See section 1 of Act A1318 Act A1400 See section 1 of Act A1400 Act A1468 See subsections 1(1) to (33) of Act A1468 25 Act A656 011986 Act A751 011991 Act A862 011991 Act A900 291993 Act A1318 See section 1 of Act A1318 Act A1400 See section 1 of Act A1400 Act A1468 See subsections 1(1) to (33) of Act A1468 Act 812 Year of assessment 2019 and subsequent years of assessment 26 Act A656 011986 Act A751 011989 Act A900 291993 Act A1318 See section 1 of Act A1318 26A Act A862 011991 Act A993 251996 26B Act A900 201994 Act A1318 See section 1 of Act A1318 Act A1468 See subsections 1(1) to (33) of Act A1468 26C Act A900 201994 Act A1318 See section 1 of Act A1318 26D Act A900 201994 

Promotion Of Investments 137 Section Amending authority In force from 26E Act A900 201994 26F Act A900 201994 Act A993 251996 Act A1318 See section 1 of Act A1318 Act A1400 See section 1 of Act A1400 Act A1468 See subsections 1(1) to (33) of Act A1468 26G Act 531 281994 Act A1318 See section 1 of Act A1318 26H Act A1318 See section 1 of Act A1318 Act A1468 See subsections 1(1) to (33) of Act A1468 26I–26L Act A1318 See section 1 of Act A1318 Act A1400 See section 1 of Act A1400 Act A1468 (except 26J) See subsections 1(1) to (33) of Act A1468 26M Act A1318 See section 1 of Act A1318 26N Act A1318 See section 1 of Act A1318 Act A1468 See subsections 1(1) to (33) of Act A1468 26O Act A1318 See section 1 of Act A1318 Act A1400 See section 1 of Act A1400 27 Act A656 011986 Act A751 011986 Act A862 on or after 01 1994 Act A1318 See section 1 of Act A1318 Act A1400 See section 1 of Act A1400 27A Act A862 011991 27B Act A900 201994 

138 Laws of Malaysia ACT 327 Section Amending authority In force from Act A1468 See subsections 1(1) to (33) of Act A1468 27C Act A900 201994 Act A1400 See section 1 of Act A1400 27D Act A900 201994 27E Act A900 201994 Act A1400 See section 1 of Act A1400 27F Act A900 201994 Act A1400 See section 1 of Act A1400 27G Act 531 281994 Act A1318 See section 1 of Act A1318 Act A1400 See section 1 of Act A1400 27H Act A1318 See section 1 of Act A1318 Act A1468 See subsections 1(1) to (33) of Act A1468 27I Act A1318 See section 1 of Act A1318 Act A1400 See section 1 of Act A1400 Act A1468 See subsections 1(1) to (33) of Act A1468 27J–27K Act A1318 See section 1 of Act A1318 Act A1400 See section 1 of Act A1400 27L–27N Act A1318 See section 1 of Act A1318 Act A1400 See section 1 of Act A1400 Act A1468 See subsections 1(1) to (33) of Act A1468 27O Act A1318 See section 1 of Act A1318 Act A1400 See section 1 of Act A1400 

Promotion Of Investments 139 Section Amending authority In force from 27P Act A1468 See subsections 1(1) to (33) of Act A1468 28 Act A862 011991 Act A900 291993 Act 531 281994 Act A1318 See section 1 of Act A1318 Act A1400 See section 1 of Act A1400 Act A1468 See subsection 1(1) to (33) of Act A1468 28A Act A1318 See section 1 of Act A1318 29 Act A656 011986 Act A751 011986 011989 Act A862 011986 011991 Act A1318 See section 1 of Act A1318 Act A1468 See subsections 1(1) to (33) of Act A1468 29A Act A862 011991 Act A877 101992 Act A900 291993 Act A993 251996 Act A1468 See subsections 1(1) to (33) of Act A1468 29AA Act A1318 See section 1 of Act A1318 Act A1468 See subsections 1(1) to (33) of Act A1468 29B Act A862 011991 Act A993 251996 Act A1468 See subsections 1(1) to (33) of Act A1468 29C Act A900 201994 Act A1318 See section 1 of Act A1318 Act A1400 See section 1 of Act A1400 Act A1468 See subsections 1(1) to (33) of Act A1468 29D–29F Act A900 201994 

140 Laws of Malaysia ACT 327 Section Amending authority In force from Act A1468 See subsections 1(1) to (33) of Act A1468 29G Act A900 201994 Act A993 251996 Act A1468 See subsections 1(1) to (33) of Act A1468 29H Act 531 281994 Act A1318 See section 1 of Act A1318 Act A1468 See subsections 1(1) to (33) of Act A1468 29I–29J Act A1318 See section 1 of Act A1318 Act A1468 See subsections 1(1) to (33) of Act A1468 29K Act A1318 See subsections 1(1)to (33) of Act A1468 29L Act A1318 See section 1 of Act A1318 Act A1400 See section 1 of Act A1400 29M Act A1318 See section 1 of Act A1318 Act A1400 See section 1 of Act A1400 Act A1468 See subsections 1(1)to (33) of Act A1468 29N Act A1318 See section 1 of Act A1318 29O Act A1318 See section 1 of Act A1318 Act A1400 See section 1 of Act A1400 Act A1468 See subsections 1(1) to (33) of Act A1468 29P Act A1318 See section 1 of Act A1318 Act A1400 See section 1 of Act A1400 

Promotion Of Investments 141 Section Amending authority In force from 29Q–29R Act 773 Year of assessment 2015 and subsequent years of assessment 30 Act A1468 See subsections 1(1) to (33) of Act A1468 30A Act A1318 See section 1 of Act A1318 Act A1400 See section 1 of Act A1400 Act A1468 See subsections 1(1) to (33) of Act A1468 Act 812 Year of assessment 2019 and subsequent years of assessment Chapter 2A Act A751 011990 31A Act A751 011990 Act A1318 See section 1 of Act A1318 Act A1400 See section 1 of Act A1400 31B Act A751 011990 Act A1318 See section 1 of Act A1318 31C Act A751 011990 Act A1318 See section 1 of Act A1318 31D Act A751 011990 Act A1318 See section 1 of Act A1318 31E Act A751 011990 Act A1318 See section 1 of Act A1318 32 Act A656 011986 Act A862 011992 Act A900 291993 Act A1318 See section 1 of Act A1318 33 Act A656 011986 Act A715 011989 Act A862 011992 Act A1318 See section 1 of Act A1318 33A Act A715 011989 

142 Laws of Malaysia ACT 327 Section Amending authority In force from Act A862 Year of assessment 1993 and subsequent years of assessment 34 Act A656 011986 Act A862 011992 Act A1318 See section 1 of Act A1318 35 Act A751 011989 Act A862 Year of assessment 1993 and subsequent years of assessment Act A1318 See section 1 of Act A1318 Chapter 4 Act A862 Year of assessment 1993 and subsequent years of assessment 36 Act A656 011986 Act A751 011986 Act 438 051991 Act A862 011991, Year of assessment 1993 and subsequent years Act A877 011993 Act A900 291993 Act A1318 See section 1 of Act A1318 36A Act A656 011986 Act 438 051991 Act A862 011991 Year of assessment 1993 and subsequent years of assessment Act A1318 See section 1 of Act A1318 37 Act A656 011986 Act A751 011986 Act A862 Year of assessment 1993 and subsequent years of assessment Act 531 281994 Act A1318 See section 1 of Act A1318 38 Act A751 011986 Act A877 011993 

Promotion Of Investments 143 Section Amending authority In force from Act A1318 See section 1 of Act A1318 Heading of Chapter 5 Act A656 011986 39 Act A656 011986 Act A751 011986 Act A862 011991 Act A877 011993 Act A900 291993 Act A1318 See section 1 of Act A1318 39A Act A656 011986 Act A1318 See section 1of Act A1318 40 Act A656 011986 Act A751 011986 Act A1318 See section 1 of Act A1318 40A Act A877 011993 Act A1318 See section 1 of Act A1318 Chapter 7 Act A900 291993 Act A1468 See subsections 1(1) to (33) of Act A1468 41A Act A900 291993 Act A1468 See subsections 1(1) to (33) of Act A1468 41B Act A900 291993 Act A993 251996 Act A1318 See section 1 of Act A1318 Act A1400 See section 1 of Act A1400 Act A1468 See subsections 1(1) to (33) of Act A1468 43A Act A656 011986 Act A862 011991 Act A900 291993 Act A1318 See section 1 of Act A1318 Act A1400 See section 1 of Act A1400 Act A1468 See subsections 1(1) to (33) of Act A1468 

144 Laws of Malaysia ACT 327 Section Amending authority In force from 45 Act A656 011986 46 Act A656 011986 47 Act A656 011986 48 Act A656 011986 Act A751 011989 50 Act A751 011989 50A Act A656 011986 50AA Act A751 011990 50B Act A656 011986 Act A751 011989 Act A862 011991 51 Act A656 011986 53 Act A656 011986 Schedule Act A751 011986 P.U. (A) 170/2001 012001 P.U. (A) 267/2003 From the year of assessment 2002 ____________________