LAWS OF MALAYSIA ONLINE VERSION OF UPDATED TEXT OF REPRINT Act 366 POISONS ACT 1952 As at 11 May 2024 This text is ONLY AN UPDATED TEXT of the Poison s Act 195 2 by the Attorney General’s Chambers. Unless and until reprinted pursuant t o the powers of the Commissioner of Law Revision under subsection 14(1) of the Revision of Laws Act 1968 [Act 1], this text is NOT AN AUTHENTIC TEXT. 

2 POISONS ACT 1952 First enacted … … … … 1952 (Ord. No. 29 of 1952) Revised … … … … 1989 (Act 366 w.e.f. 13 April 1989) Latest amendment made by P.U. (A)125/2024 which came into operation on … … 11 May 2024 PREVIOUS REPRINTS First Reprint ... ... ... ... ... 2001 Second Reprint ... ... ... ... ... 2006 

3 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 366 POISONS ACT 1952 ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS Section 1. Short title and application 2. Interpretation 3. Establishment of Poisons Board 4. Proceedings of Board 4A. Resolution without meeting 5. Powers of Board to regulate proceedings 6. Power of Minister to amend Poisons List 7. Application of the Act 8. Control of imports of poisons 9. Packaging, labelling and storing of poisons 10. Transport of poisons 11. Control of manufacture of preparations containing poison 12. Control of compounding of poisons for use in medical treatment 13. Possession for sale of poison and sale of poison in contravention of this Act an offence 14. Control of acetylating substances 15. Sale of poisons by wholesale 16. Sale of poisons by retail 17. Prohibition of sale to persons under 18 18. Restriction on the sale or supply of Part I poisons generally 

4 Laws of Malaysia ACT 366 Section 19. Supply of poisons for the purpose of treatment by professional men 20. Group A Poisons 21. Group B Poisons 22. Group C Poisons 23. Group D Poisons 24. Prescription Book 25. Sale of Part II Poisons 26. Licences 26A. Directives 27. Register of licences 28. (Deleted) 29. Control of import manufacture and sale of lead tetra ethyl 30. Control of import, export, manufacture, sale, etc., of psychotropic substances 31. Powers of investigation, examination and entry into premises 31A. Powers of enforcement, inspection and investigation 31B. Search and seizure 31C. Power to access premises and land 31D. Power to require information and documents 31E. Access to recorded information, computerized data, etc. 31F. No cost or damages arising from entry, search or seizure to be recoverable 32. Penalties 32A. Compounding of offences 33. Sessions or Magistrate’s Court to have full jurisdiction ove r offences against this Act 34. Sanction to prosecute and conduct of prosecutions 34A. Protection against suits and legal proceedings 34B. Evidence of agent provocateur is admissible 34C. Electronic transaction 

Poisons 5 Section 35. Regulations FIRST SCHEDULE SECOND SCHEDULE THIRD SCHEDULE 

 

7 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 366 POISONS ACT 1952 An Act to regulate the import ation, possession, manufacture, compounding, storage, transport, sale and use of poisons. [Peninsular Malaysia─1 September 1952; Sabah and Sarawak─1 June 1978] Short title and application 1. (1) This Act may be cited as the Poisons Act 1952. (2) This Act shall apply throughout Malaysia. Interpretation 2. (1) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires— “Acetylating substance ” includes acetic anhydride, acetyl chloride and acetyl bromide; “animal treatment” includes the investigation, examination or treatment of animal ailments; “authorized officer” means— (a) a Drug Enforcement Officer under this Act; (b) a police officer not below the rank of Inspector; or (c) a senior officer of customs as defined under the Customs Act 1967 [Act 235]; 

8 Laws of Malaysia ACT 366 “British Pharmacopoeia ” and “British Pharmaceutical Codex” respectively include supplements thereto; “compounding”, and its grammatical variations, mean the preparation, weighing, measuring and mixing if necessary of drugs and chemicals for the treatment of ailments; “contravention” of a provision includes a failure to comply with such provision; “conveyance’ includes ship, train, vehicle, aircraft or any other means of transport by which persons or goods can be carried; “dental treatment” includes the investigation, examination or treatment of human ailments of the teeth or the oral or maxillo -facial complex or its related structures or the performance of operations or the giving of treatment commonly undertaken or given by those practising dentistry; “Director General of Health” means the Director General of Health, Malaysia; “dispensed medicine” means a medicine supplied by— (a) a registered medical practitioner, registered dentist or registered veterinary surgeon under and in accordance with section 19; or (b) a registered pharmacist at or from a premises where a licensed pharmacist is licensed to retail poisons, for the purpose of the medical, dental or animal treatment, of a particular individual; “Drug Enforcement Officer” means any registered pharmacist in the public service duly authorized in writing by the Licensing Officer under subsection 31(1); “electronic” means the technology of utilizing electrical, optical, magnetic, electromagnetic, biometric, photonic or other similar technology; 

 Poisons 9 “electronic message” means an information generated, sent, received or stored by electronic means; “estate” means any agricultural land exceeding twenty -five acres in extent upon which agricultural operations of any kind are carried on or upon which the produce of any plants or trees is collected or treated or any mine to which the provisions of Part IX of the Labour Code of the Federated Malay States [F.M.S. Cap. 154] or any of such provisions or any provisions, corresponding to such provisions, in force in any State have been lawfully applied; “estate hospital” means a hospital or dispensary maintained by an employer on or in the neighbourhood of an estate for the treatment of labourers thereon and includes a group hospital within the meaning of the Labour Code of the Federated Malay States or of any written law in any State corresponding thereto; “exempted preparation” means a preparation containing a poison of the kind or having the strength or otherwise coming within the description specified in the last column of the Poisons List entitled “Exempted Preparations”; “generally accepted name” means the name by which a substance is generally known in the trade; “a Group A Poison” “a Group B Poison” “a Group C Poison” and “a Group D Poison” respectively means a poison having the strength or otherwise coming within the description specified in the column of the Poison List entitled Group A, Group B, Group C or Group D respectively opposite to the name of such poison appearing in the first column of the Poisons List; “Licensing Officer” means a person appointed to be a Licensing Officer under section 26 and includes the Director General of Health; “licensed pharmacist” means a registered pharmacist who is the holder of a Type A Licence issued to him under section 26; “licensed wholesaler” means a person holding a licence issued to him under section 26 to sell poisons by wholesale; 

10 Laws of Malaysia ACT 366 “manufacture” and its grammatical variations, mean the preparation, compounding, mixing and making of a pharmaceutical preparation in bulk but does not include the dispensing of a pharmaceutical preparation for a particular individual; “medical treatment” includes the investigation, examination or treatment of human ailments; “Minister” means the Minister charged with the responsibility for medical and health services; “Part I Poison” means a Group A, Group B, Group C or Group D poison specified in the column of the Poisons List entitled “Part I” of the First Schedule; “Part II Poison” means a poison specified in the column of the Poisons List entitled “Part II” of the First Schedule; “poison” means any substance specified by name in the first column of the Poisons List and includes any preparation, solution, compound, mixture or natural substance containing such substance, other than an exempted preparation or an article or preparation included for the time being in the Second Schedule; “Poisons List” means the Poisons List set out in the First Schedule as amended from time to time in accordance with section 6; “possess for sale” and its grammatical variations include having in possession knowing that the article possessed i s likely to be sold or exposed for sale; “premises” includes any house, shop, store, room, cubicle, shed, conveyance, structure or any place whether open or enclosed; “Principal Director” means the head of the pharmaceutical services in the Ministry of Health; “psychotropic substance” means any of the substances specified in the Third Schedule; “retail sale” means any sale other than a wholesale sale; 

 Poisons 11 “registered dentist” means a dental practitioner registered in Division I or Division II of the Regist er kept under subsection 11(1) of the Dental Act 1971 [ Act 51]; and “registered dentist Division I” and “registered dentist Division II” means a dental practitioner whose name has been registered in the first or second division respectively of the said Register; “registered medical practitioner” means a medical practitioner registered under the Medical Act 1971 [Act 50]; “registered pharmacist” means a pharmacist registered under any written law relating to the registration of pharmacists, and includes, in Sabah or Sarawak, a person holding a qualification recognized by the Director of Medical Services in Sabah or Sarawak, as the case may be, as a sufficient guarantee of the possession of the requisite knowledge and skill for the efficient practice of the profession of a pharmacist; “registered veterinary surgeon” means a veterinary surgeon registered under the Veterinary Surgeons Act 1974 [Act 147]; “sell” or “sale” includes barter and also includes offering or attempting the sell; “supply” includes the supply of commercial samples and dispensed medicines, but does not include the direct administration by or under the immediate personal supervision of a registered medical practitioner or registered dentist of a poison or medicine to his patient in the course of treatment where such administration is authorized under section 19; “Peninsular Malaysia” has the meaning assigned thereto in section 3 of the Interpretation Acts 1948 and 1967 [ Act 388 ], and includes the Federal Territory of Kuala Lumpur and Labuan; “wholesale” means a sale to any person who intends to sell again and any sale by a licensed wholesaler authorized by paragraphs (d) to (k) inclusive of subsection 15(2); “written law” has the meaning assigned thereto in the Interpretation Acts 1948 and 1967. 

12 Laws of Malaysia ACT 366 (2) In this Act where anything is required to be done under the immediate personal supervision of any person it shall be deemed to have been so done if such person was at the time it was done upon the premises where it was done and availab le for immediate consultation by the person doing such thing: Provided that where any dispensing compounding or mixing of any poison with any other substance is required to be done under the immediate personal supervision of any person, it shall not be de emed to have been so done unless such person has himself checked such dispensing, compounding or mixing. Establishment of Poisons Board 3. (1) For the purpose of this Act and to advise the Minister generally thereon, there shall be established an advis ory board, called the Poisons Board, consisting of the members following: (a) the Director General of Health who shall be an ex -officio member; (b) one pharmacist holding office in the service of the Government to be appointed by the Minister; (c) one officer of t he Department of Chemistry to be appointed by the Minister; (d) one officer of the Department of Agriculture to be appointed by the Minister; (e) one officer of the Veterinary Department holding office in the service of the Government to be appointed by the Minister; and (f) eight persons ordinarily resident in Malaysia and not in the service of any Government in the Federation to be appointed by the Minister who shall be nominated as follows: (i) one by the Malaysian Medical Association; 

 Poisons 13 (ii) one by the Malaysian Medical Council established under the Medical Act 1971; (iii) one by the Malaysian International Chambers of Commerce and Industry; (iv) one by the Associated Chinese Chambers of Commerce and Industry of Malaysia; (v) one by the Malay Chambers of Commerce; (vi) one by the Associa ted Indian Chambers of Commerce, Malaysia; (vii) one by the Malaysian Pharmacists Society; and (viii) one by the Malaysian Rubber Producer’s Council. (2) Every member, other than the ex officio members, shall, unless he shall sooner resign, hold office for a period of three years or such shorter period as the Minister may in any particular case determine from the date of his appointment. (3) Any person ceasing to be member of the Board shall be eligible for reappointment. (4) The Minister may appoint a person si milarly qualified to be a temporary member of the Board during the incapacity through illness or during the absence from Malaysia of any member, other than an ex officio member, of the Board: Provided that no person shall be appointed in the place of a member nominated under paragraph (1)(f) except upon the nomination by the body by which such member was nominated. (5) Every such temporary member shall be deemed to be a member of the Board. 

14 Laws of Malaysia ACT 366 Proceedings of Board 4. (1) The Director General of Health shall be the Chairman of the Poisons Board and shall preside at all meetings which he attends. (2) In the absence of the Chairman from any meeting the members present shall elect one of their members to preside. (3) The Chairman or member presiding at any meeting shall have an original vote and also, if upon any question the votes are equally divided, a casting vote. (4) The Board shall meet at such places and times as the Chairman may appoint and at any meeting four members including the Chairman or member presiding shall form a quorum. (5) The Board may invite any one or more persons to attend any meeting of the Board but a person so attending shall not have the right to vote at the meeting. (6) There may be paid to members of the Board such allowa nces and other expenses as may be determined by the Board with the approval of the Minister and such allowances and expenses shall be payable out of the general revenues of the Federation. (7) The Minister may, after consultation with the Board, appoint a Secretary to the Board who shall not be a member of the Board or have any right to vote at its meetings. Resolution without meeting 4A. (1) Subject to subsection (2), the Poisons Board may, where necessary, pass a resolution without meeting. (2) Where the Board wishes to pass a resolution without meeting, the Board shall comply with the following conditions: (a) all members of the Board have been informed of the proposed resolution, or reasonable efforts have been 

 Poisons 15 made to inform all members of the Board of the proposed resolution; and (b) all members of the Board indicate agreement with the resolution in accordance with the method determined by the Board under subsection (3). (3) Subsection (2) applies only if the Board decides— (a) that the subsection applies; and (b) the method by which members of the Board are to indicate agreement with the resolution. Powers of Boards to regulate proceedings 5. (1) Subject to this Act the Poisons Board shall have power to regulate its own procedure. (2) No action or proceeding of the Board shall be questioned on the ground— (a) of the existence of any vacancy in the membership or any defect in the constitution of the Board; or (b) of any omission, defect or irregularity in procedure not affecting the merits of the case. Power of Minister to amend Poisons List 6. The Minister may, from time to time, after consultation with the Poisons Board by order notified in the Gazette, add to, remove from or reinstate in the Poisons List any substance as he may deem fit or proper, or remove from transfer to or include in any column of the Poisons List any poison, or exempted preparation or amend any definition of any poison or exempted preparation contained in such list or in any column thereof. 

16 Laws of Malaysia ACT 366 Application of the Act 7. (1) Nothing in this Act shall apply— (a) to any exempted preparation; or (b) to any article or preparation specified in the Second Schedule. (2) The Minister may, from time to time, after consultation with the Poisons Board by order notified in the Gazette, add to or remove from the Second Schedule any article or preparation. (3) Save in so far as is expressly provided by any regulation made under this Act, this Act shall not apply to the sale or supply of any poison or of any medicine containing poison by any officer or person, who— (a) is employed in any hospital, infirmary, dispensary or veterinary hospital wholly maintained by the Government of Malaysia or any State Government or by any local authority or out of public funds or by a charity approved by an order, whether general or special, of the Director General of Health, and who sells or supplies in the course of his duty such poison or medicine to any out patient of such hospital, infirmary or dispensary for the medical or dental treatment of such patient or, in the case of an officer or person employed in a veterinary hospital, to any person for the animal treatment of any animal tended by him; or (b) is employed in any hospital, infirmary, dispensary, clinic, nursing home or other institution at which human or animal ailments are treated, and who sells or supplies in the course of his duty such poison or medicine for the use in the wards, operating theatres or other sections thereof: Provided that such sale or supply is made and conducted in accordance with an y regulations expressly applicable thereto made under this Act. 

 Poisons 17 Control of imports of poisons 8. (1) No person other than a person licensed under this Act in that behalf shall import any poison from any place outside Malaysia. (2) This section shall not apply to— (a) any person arriving in Malaysia from a place outside Malaysia who imports, as part of his personal luggage and solely for his personal use or for the use of his family, a prepared or packaged medicine containing any poison, not exceeding such quantities as may be reasonably required for one month’s use by one person; and (b) any person importing a prepared or packaged medicine containing any poison for his own personal use or for that of his family by letter or parcel post, in such quantities and subject to such conditions as may be prescribed by regulations made under this Act; and (c) any officer of the Government importing in the course of his duty any poison on account of the Government; and (d) any other person whom the Minister may absolutely o r conditionally exempt from the provisions of this section. (3) Any person who imports any poison in contravention of this section or who contravenes any term or condition of any licence granted to him or the provisions of any regulation made or any condition of any exemption granted to him under this section shall be guilty of an offence against this Act. Packaging, labelling and storing of poisons 9. (1) No person, whether licensed under this Act or not, shall knowingly sell, supply, keep or have in his possession or under his control or store any poison otherwise than in accordance with the regulations made under this Act and in force relating to the possession, containers, packaging, labelling or storing of such poison. 

18 Laws of Malaysia ACT 366 (2) In any proceedings under this section if any person is proved to have sold, kept or had in his possession or under his control or stored any poison he shall be deemed to have done so knowingly, unless the contrary is proved by him. (3) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence against this Act. Transport of poisons 10. No person shall transport or consign for transport any poison otherwise than in accordance with the regulations made under this Act. Control of manufacture of preparations containing poison 11. No preparation containing any poison shall be manufactured otherwise than in accordance with the regulations made under this Act. Control of compounding of poisons for use in medical treatment 12. (1) No person shall dispense, compound or mix any poison with any other substance, whether a poison or not, for the purpose of its being used for medical treatment unless he is— (a) a registered pharmacist or a person working under the immediate personal supervision of a registered pharmacist; (b) a person acting in the course of his duties who is employed in a hospital or dispensary maintained by the Government of Malaysia or any State Government or out of public funds or by a charity approved by an order whether general or special of the Director General of Health or in an estate hospital and who is authorized in writing by the registered medical practitioner for the time being in charge of such hospital or dispensary to dispense, compound and mix poison; or 

 Poisons 19 (c) a registered medical practitioner or a p erson working under the immediate personal supervision of such a practitioner who dispenses, compounds or mixes poisons for the use of such practitioner or of his patients. (2) No poison shall be dispensed, compounded or mixed with any other substance whether a poison or not otherwise than in accordance with any regulations made under this Act. Possession for sale of poison and sale of poison in contravention of this Act an offence 13. Any person who— (a) possesses for sale any poison, unless he is licens ed under this Act to sell or supply such poison or authorized under section 18 to sell or supply such poison; or (b) sells or supplies any poison in contravention of, or otherwise than in accordance with, this Act, or of any regulations made thereunder or of the terms and conditions of any licence issued to him under this Act, relating to the sale or supply of poison, or relating to the sale or supply of poison included in that Part or Group of the Poisons List in which the poison so sold or supplied is included; shall be guilty of an offence against this Act. Control of acetylating substances 14. (1) Any person who has in his possession an acetylating substance shall be guilty of an offence against this Act unless he proves— (a) that he is licensed under this Act; (b) that he is authorized under this Act; or (c) that the acetylating substance is in his possession for a lawful purpose. 

20 Laws of Malaysia ACT 366 (2) In any prosecution for an offence under this section, any person who is found to have in his custody or under his control any acetylating substance shall be deemed to have been in possession of the substance and to have known the nature of the substance, until he proves to the contrary. (3) Any person convicted of an offence against this section shall be liable to imprisonment for a term not exceeding fourteen years and not less than three years, and he shall also be punished with whipping of not less than six strokes. (4) Notwithstanding any other provision in any other written law to the contrary, a person charged under this section shall not be granted bail. Sale of poisons by wholesale 15. (1) No poison shall be sold by wholesale except by a licensed wholesaler in accordance with the terms and conditions of his licence. (2) No poison shall be sold by a licensed wholesaler except to— (a) a person licensed to retail such poison; (b) a purchaser outside Malaysia to whom such poison is to be immediately exported on sale; (c) another licensed wholesaler; (d) the owner or the manager acting on behalf of the owner of any estate for the purpose of the business of such estate or for enabling such owner, or his manager acting on his behalf, to comply with any requirements made by or under any written law with respect to the medical treatment of persons employed on such estate; (e) a professional person or tradesman for the purpose of such person’s or trademan’s profession or trade and not for resale; 

 Poisons 21 (f) a registered medical practitioner or a registered dentist for the treatment of his patients or a registered veterinary surgeon for the treatment of any animal which such surgeon is employed to treat; (g) a licensed pharmacist; (h) a Government Department, local authority or public body; (i) a hospital, infirmary, dispensary or veterinary hospital maintained by the Government of Malaysia or any State Government or by any local authority or out of public funds or by a charity approved by an order, whether general or special, of the Director General of Health; (j) a person or institution concerned with scientific education or research or chemical analysis for the p urpose of such education, research or analysis; (k) a person who requires the poison for the purpose of enabling him to comply with any requirement made by, or in pursuance of, any written law with respect to the medical treatment of persons employed by that person in any business or trade carried out by that person. (2A) Any person referred to in paragraph 15(2) (a), (c), (d), (e), (f), (g) or (k) who purchases any poison from a wholesaler other than a licensed wholesaler shall be guilty of an offence against this Act. (3) The seller by wholesale of any poison shall not deliver it until— (a) he has made or caused to be made an entry in a register to be kept for such purpose, in the prescribed form, stating the name and address of the purchaser, the date of the sale, the name and quantity of the poison sold and the purposes for which it is stated by the purchaser to be required; and (b) the purchaser has affixed his signature to the entry or has forwarded to the seller a written order in respect of such sale signed by the purchaser and containing the particulars required to be entered under this subsection. Every such 

22 Laws of Malaysia ACT 366 written order shall be retained by the seller and a reference to the file in which such order is retained shall be entered in the register in place of the purchaser’s signature. (4) Notwithstanding subsection (3), if it shall appear to the seller that any poison is required urgently and that it is impossible or unreasonable to obtain the signature of the purchaser or his signed written order before d elivery thereof, it shall be lawful for the selle r, after making an entry in the register stating the reasons for his action and the date of delivery, to deliver such poison to the purchaser without such signature or order: Provided that, in every such case, the seller shall take all necessary steps to obtain, and the purchaser shall forward, a written order signed by the purchaser in respect of such sale, within seven days of the date of such delivery. (5) Any purchaser who fails or neglects to forwar d to the seller a written order duly signed by him within the time prescribed by the proviso to subsection (4) in respect of any poison delivered to him under the provisions of such subsection shall be guilty of an offence against this Act. (6) Nothing i n this section shall be held to authorize the sale by wholesale of any particular kind of poison otherwise than in accordance with this Act or of any regulations made thereunder relating to such kind of poison. (7) Any person who sells or delivers any po ison by wholesale in contravention of this section shall be guilty of an offence against this Act. Sale of poisons by retail 16. (1) Subject to section 18 no poison shall be sold by retail except by a registered pharmacist or a person licensed to sell s uch poison by retail and in accordance with the terms and conditions of such licence. (2) Every such sale shall be effected at or from t he premises specified in such licence. 

 Poisons 23 (3) Every such sale shall be effected by or under the immediate personal supervision of the registered pharmacist or the person named in such licence. (4) Every such sale shall be effected in accordance with this Act and of any regulations made thereunder relating to such poison. (4A) Every licensed pharmacist shall keep record s of a registered pharmacist engaged or employed in a premises where the licensed pharmacist is licensed to retail poisons in accordance with any regulations made under this Act. (5) Any person who sells any poison by retail in contravention of this section shall be guilty of an offence under this Act. Prohibition of sale to persons under 18 17. (1) No poison shall be sold or supplied to any person under eighteen years of age, otherwise than for purposes of the medical or dental treatment of such person. (2) Any person contravening this section shall be guilty of an offence against this Act. (3) It shall be a sufficient defence to any charge under this section that the person charged had reasonable cause to believe that the person to whom such sale was made was above the age of eighteen years. Restriction on the sale or supply of Part I poisons generally 18. (1) Part I Poison shall not be sold or supplied to any person except— (a) by wholesale in accordance with section 15; or (b) by retail sale effected by or under the immediate personal supervision of a registered pharmacist at or from a premises where a licensed pharmacist is licensed to retail 

24 Laws of Malaysia ACT 366 poisons and in accordance with the terms and conditions of such licence of the licensed pharmacist; or (c) as an ingredient of a dispensed medicine, by a registered medical practitioner, registered dentist or registered veterinary surgeon in accordance with section 19; or (d) to be exported to purchasers outside Malaysia; or (e) to a person or institution concerned with scientific education or research or chemical analysis and for the purpose of such education research or analysis. (2) Nothing in this section shall be deemed to authorize the sale of any kind of poison otherwise than in accordance with this Act or of any regulations made thereunder relating to such kind of poison or otherwise than in accordance with the terms and conditions of the licence in that behalf held by the seller. Supply of poisons for the purpose of treatment by professional men 19. (1) Any p oison other than a Group A Poison may be sold, supplied or administered by the following persons for the following purposes: (a) a registered medical practitioner may sell, supply or administer such poison to his patient for the purposes of the medical treatment of such patient only; (b) a registered dentist Division I may sell, supply or administer such poison to his patient for the purposes of the dental treatment of such patient only; and (c) a registered veterinary surgeon may sell or supply such poison to his c lient for the purposes of animal treatment only. 

 Poisons 25 (2) A registered dentist Division II may sell, supply or administer to his patient for the purposes of the dental treatment of such patient only any poison other than a Group A or a Group B Poison. (3) Every medicine containing any poison sold or supplied under subsection (1) or (2) shall be prepared by or under the immediate personal supervision of such registered medical practitioner, registered dentist or registered veterinary surgeon, as the case may be: Provided that any medicine, received by such registered medical practitioner, registered dentist or registered veterinary surgeon in a prepared state from a manufacturer or wholesaler, shall be deemed, for the purposes of this section, to have been prepared by such registered medical practitioner, registered dentist or registered veterinary surgeon respectively, if the receptacle containing such medicine is labelled by or under the immediate personal supervision of such registered medical practitioner, registered dentist or registered veterinary surgeon in such manner as may be prescribed by regulations made under this Act, relating to the labelling of dispensed medicines. (4) Any registered medical practitioner, registered dentist or registered veterinary surgeon who sells or supplies any poison or medicine containing a poison not prepared by him or under his immediate personal supervision shall be guilty of an offence against this Act. Group A Poisons 20. Group A Poison shall not be sold or supplied by wholesale or retail except— (a) by a licensed wholesaler to a licensed pharmacist or to another licensed wholesaler; or (b) by a licensed wholesaler to be immediately exported to a purchaser outside Malaysia. 

26 Laws of Malaysia ACT 366 Group B Poisons 21. (1) Group B Poison shall not be sold or supplied by retail to any person except— (a) where the sale or supply of such poison, if it had been a Group A Poison, would have been authorized under section 20; (b) by a registered medical practitioner, registered dentist Division I or registered veterinary surgeon selling or supplying the same in accordance with section 19; or (c) by a registered pharmacist, as a dispensed medicine on and in accordance with a prescription prescribed by a registered medical practitioner, registered dentist o r registered veterinary surgeon in the form required by subsection (2) or (2 A) and when supplied in accordance with this Act and of any regulations made thereunder relating to such sale or supply on a prescription. Form of prescription for Group B Poison (2) Except as otherwise provided in subsection (2 A), every prescription for any Group B Poison prescribed by a registered medical practitioner, registered dentist, or registered veterinary surgeon shall— (a) be in writing signed and dated by the prescriber thereof; (b) state the name and address of the prescriber; (c) state the name and address of the patient or, in the case of a prescription by a registered veterinary surgeon, the name and address of the person to whom such medicine is to be delivered; (d) indicate the total amount of medicine to be supplied and the dose; and 

 Poisons 27 (e) specify the number of times (not exceeding three) the medicine may be dispensed and, if dispensed more than once, at what intervals. Electronic prescription (2A) When a prescription is pres cribed through electronic means, every prescription for any Group B Poison prescribed by a registered medical practitioner, registered dentist or registered veterinary surgeon shall— (a) be created and dated in electronic form; (b) be signed with a digital signature by the prescriber; (c) be sent to a registered pharmacist as an electronic message; and (d) contain information as in paragraphs (2)(b), (c), (d) and (e). (2B) In this section “digital signature” means a signature that is made in accordance with the Digital Signature Act 1997 [Act 562]. (3) No person shall sell or supply by retail any Group B Poison on a prescription which does not comply with all the requirements of subsection (1) or which contravenes subsection (5) or shall sell or supply such poison otherwise than in accordance with the terms of such prescription. (4) Every person selling or supplying any Group B Poison on a prescription shall, at the time of selling or supplying the same, endorse or mark the prescription in a manner so as to permanently attach to the prescription, his name and address and the date on which such poison was sold or supplied. (5) No prescription for any Group B Poison shall be written wholly or partly in code or in such manner that it is not readily decipherable and capable of being dispensed by any pharmacist. 

28 Laws of Malaysia ACT 366 (6) Notwithstanding the provisions of the foregoing subsection of this section, if it shall appear to the seller or supplier that any medicine is required urgently and that it is impossible without unreasonable delay to obtain a prescription complying with the requirements of subsection (1), it shall be lawful for the seller or supplier, after making an entry to that effect in his Prescription Book , upon the verbal or telephoned instructions of a registered medical practitioner, personally known to him, to sell or supply such poison without such prescription: Provided that in every such case the seller or supplier shall take all necessary steps to obtain, and the prescriber shall deliver, a prescription in accordance with subsection (1) within one day of the date of such sale or supply. (7) Any person, selling or supplying any Group B Poison in contravention of this section, of failing or neglecting to endorse such prescription as required by subsection (4), or writing any prescription in code or otherwise in contravention of subsection (5), or failing to take any necessary step to obtain, or failing to deliver, the prescription as required by subsection (6), shall be guilty of an offence against this Act. Group C Poisons 22. Group C Poison shall not be sold or supplied by retail to any person except— (a) where the sale or supply of such poison, if it had been a Group B Poison, would have been authorized under or by virtue of, and is effected in accordance with section 21; or (b) as a dispensed medicine or an ingredient in a dispensed medicine. Group D Poisons 23. (1) Group D Poison shall not be sold or supplied by retail to any person except— 

 Poisons 29 (a) where the sale or supply of such poison, if it had been a Group C Poison, would have been authorized under or by virtue of section 22; or (b) by a registered pharmacist to a person known personally to such pharmacist or introduced to the pharmacist personally by a person known personally to the pharmacist and when such poison is sold or supplied in accordance with this section and of any regulations made under this Act relating to such sale or supply. Poisons Book (2) Where any Group D Poison is sold to any person by a retailer otherwise than as a dispensed medicine or an ingredient in a dispensed medicine, the retailer shall not deliver it until— (a) he has made or caused to be made an entry in a register to be kept for such purpose in the prescribed form (in this Act referred to as the “Poisons Book”) stating the name and address of the purchaser and the name and address of the person (if any) introducing such purchaser, the date of the sale, the name and quantity of the poison sold and the purposes for which it is stated by the purchaser to be required; and (b) the purchaser has affixed his signature to the entry or has forwarded to the retailer a written order in respect of such sale signed by the purchaser containing the particulars required to be entered in the Poisons Book under this section. Every such written order shall b e retained by the seller and a reference to the file in which such order is retained shall be entered in the register in the place of the purchaser’s signature. (3) Notwithstanding subsection (2) if it shall appear to the retailer that any such poison is required urgently and that it is impossible or unreasonable to obtain the signature of the purchaser or his signed written order before delivery thereof it shall be lawful for the retailer after making an entry in the Poisons Book stating the reasons for his 

30 Laws of Malaysia ACT 366 action and the date of delivery to deliver such poison to the purchaser without such order or signature: Provided that in every such case the retailer shall take all necessary steps to obtain, and the purchaser shall forward, a written order signed by the purchaser in respect of such sale within seven days of the date of such delivery. (4) Any purchaser who fails or neglects to forward to the seller a written order, duly signed by him, within the time prescribed by subsection (3), in respect of any poison delivered to him under the provisions of such subsection, shall be guilty of an offence against this Act. (5) Subject to subsection (3), any retailer who delivers to any person any Group D Poison in contravention of subsection (2) shall be guilty of an offence against this Act. Prescription Book 24. (1) Where any poison is sold or supplied as a dispensed medicine or as an ingredient in a dispensed medicine, the seller or supplier shall, on the day on which such poison or medicine is sold or supplied, enter or cause to be entered in a register, kept for such purpose (in this Act referred to as the “Prescription Book”)— (a) the date on which the medicine was sold or supplied and the serial number of the entry in such register of the prescription (if any); (b) the name of the poison and the ingredients of the medicine or, in the case of a proprietary medicine, the name of the medicine and the quantity supplied; (c) in the case of a sale or supply by a retailer on a prescription, the name of the patient, or, w hen the prescriber is a registered veterinary surgeon , or the prescription relates to animal treatment, the name of the recipient; and 

 Poisons 31 (d) in the case of a sale or supply as a dispensed medicine otherwise than on a prescription, the name and address of the person to whom it was sold or supplied: Provided that when a prescription is repeated it shall be sufficient to enter in the Prescription Book the date, the serial number of the sale, supply and prescription (if any) originally entered and the name of the patient or recipient. (2) In this section “prescription” means any written or oral instruction to the seller or supplier to supply any poison, or medicine containing any poison, for the purpose of the medical, dental or animal treatment of any person or a nimal, given by any person; and “prescriber” means the person giving such instructions or causing such instructions to be given to the seller or supplier. (3) If any prescription is given orally, such prescription shall be confirmed by a written prescription within one day. Sale of Part II Poisons 25. (1) No person shall sell or supply any Part II Poison otherwise than in accordance with this Act and of any regulations made thereunder. (2) No person, licensed to sell Part II Poisons only, shall sell any arsenical or mercurial poison to any person, unless such person is engaged in agriculture, horticulture or the trade or business of curing skins or hides or the preservation of buildings or other structures, liable to be destroyed by insects, and requires such poison for the purpose of such agriculture, horticulture, trade or business. (3) Any person selling or supplying any Part II Poison in contravention of subsection (1) or (2) shall be guilty of an offence against this Act. Licences 26. (1) The Director General of Health, or the Principal Director or the Director of Medical and Health Services of any State duly appointed in writing by the Director General of Health to be a 

32 Laws of Malaysia ACT 366 Licensing Officer of any State or the Federal Territory may, subject to this Act, issue licences for the purposes of this Act. (2) Such licences may be— (a) a Type A licence issued to a pharmacist to import, store and deal generally by wholesale and retail or by wholesale only or by retail only, subject to this Act, in all poisons; (b) a Type B licence issued to any person whom the Licensing Officer may consider to be a fit and proper person to hold such licence, or issued to a responsible officer of a company incorporated under the *Companies Act 2016 [Act 777] to import, store and sell by wholesale such poisons (not being a Group A Poison) as may be specified in such licence: Provided that no such licence shall be issued to any person or officer who is engaged or concerned in any business of selling goods by retail or shall cont inue valid at any time after such person or officer becomes so engaged or concerned; (c) (Deleted by Act A1666); (d) a Type D licence issued to any person, whom the Licensing Officer may consider to be a fit and proper person to hold such licence, to store and sell by retail such Part II Poisons as may be specified therein; or (e) a Type E licence issued to any person who in the course of his business uses Sodium Hydroxide in such substantial quantity that the Licensing Officer deems it appropriate to issue t o him a licence to import, store and use Sodium Hydroxide. (3) Every such licence shall be substantially in the form prescribed applicable to the type of such lice nce and shall state the name of the *NOTE —The Companies Act 2016 [ Act 777 ] has replaced the Companies Act 1965 [ Act 125 ] w.e.f. 31 January 2017 —see subsection 620(1) of Act 777. 

 Poisons 33 person to whom it is issued, and the premises on which any sale or use may be effected, and the period for which such licence is valid. (4) Every such licence shall be subject to such terms and conditions, not inconsistent with this Act or of any regulations made thereunder, as the Licensing Officer may in his discretion impose, subject however in all cases to appeal to the Minister. (5) The Licensing Officer may, in his discretion, refuse to issue any such licence or may cancel any such licence previously issued: Provided that any person aggrieved by the refusal of the Licensing Officer to issue a licence or by the cancellation of a licence may appeal to the Minister whose decision shall be final. (6) Every such licence shall be personal to the licensee named therein and shall not in any case, be transferable to another person and no licence shall authorize the s ale of any poison by any person other than the person named ther ein or otherwise than under his personal supervision, provided th at the Licensing Officer, if he sees fit, may amend on a licence the address of the premises at which the person licensed carries on the business or profession in respect of which he is licensed. (7) Any person who contravenes any term or condition of any licence issued under this section shall be guilty of an offence a gainst this Act. Directives 26A. (1) The Director General of Health may issue such directives, not inconsistent with the provision of this Act, as he thinks necessary or expedient for the proper implementation of section 26 of this Act. (2) A person issued with the directives under this section shall comply with such directives. (3) Any person who fails to comply with the directives issued by the Director General of Health under subsection (1) commits an offence against this Act. 

34 Laws of Malaysia ACT 366 Register of licences 27. (1) Every licence, issued under this Act by a Licensing Officer for any State in such State, shall be numbered consecutively in respect of each type and of the year in which it was issued, commencing each year with the number one. (2) The Licens ing Officer for each State shall keep a register of licences issued by showing all the particulars of each licence so issued, and the entries in such register shall be numbered to correspond with the serial numbers of the licences and there shall be noted in the register, in the event of the cancellation of any licence, the date of such cancellation. (3) Any extract from or copy of an entry in a register kept under this section shall be prima facie evidence of the facts stated therein, if such extract or copy is certified under the hand of the Licensing Officer to be a true extract or copy. Annual list to be published 28. (Deleted by Act A1666). Control of the import manufacture and sale of lead tetra ethyl 29. (1) In this section— “lead tetra ethyl” includes other similar lead containing compounds used as ingredients of motor fuel; “ethyl petrol” means motor spirit containing lead tetra ethyl; “concentrated ethyl fluid” means any fluid containing lead tetra ethyl in a proportion exceeding one par t to nine hundred and fifty parts in volume. (2) Notwithstanding any other provisions, including section 7 of this Act, or of any licence issued under any other provisions of this Act, no person shall manufacture lead tetra ethyl or sell, import, possess or use any ethyl petrol or concentrated ethyl fluid otherwise 

 Poisons 35 than in accordance with any regulations applicable thereto made under this Act. Control of import, export, manufacture, sale, etc., of psychotropic substances 30. (1) (Deleted by Act A1666). (2) The Minister may, from time to time, after consultation with the Poisons Board, by order published in the Gazette amend the Third Schedule. (3) Notwithstanding any other provisions in this Act, no person shall import, export, manufacture, compoun d, mix, dispense, sell, supply, administer, possess or use any psychotropic substance otherwise than in accordance with any regulations applicable thereto made under this Act. (4) In any prosecution for an offence under this section, any person who is fo und to have in his custody or under his control any psychotropic substance shall be deemed to have been in possession of the substance and to have known the nature of the substance, until he proves to the contrary. (5) Any person who contravenes subsecti on (3) or any regulations made under this Act relating to psychotropic substances shall be guilty of an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding *one hundred thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding **five years or both. Authorization of Drug Enforcement Officer 31. (1) The Licensing Officer may authorize in writing any registered pharmacist in the public service to exercise the powers of a Drug Enforcement Officer under this Act. *NOTE—Previously “ten”—see subparagraph 17(b)(i) of the Poisons (Amendment) Act 2022 [Act A1666]. **NOTE—Previously “four” —see subparagraph 17( b)(ii) of the Poisons (Amendment) Act 2022 [Act A1666 ]. 

36 Laws of Malaysia ACT 366 (2) In exercising any of the powers of a Drug Enforcement Officer under this Act, a Drug Enforcement Officer shall on demand produce to the person against whom he is acting the authorization referred to in subsection (1). (3) – (10) (Deleted by Act A1666). Powers of enforcement, inspection and investigation 31A. An authorized officer shall have all the powers of a police officer of whatever rank as provided for under the Criminal Procedure Code [Act 593] in relation to enforcement, inspection and investigation, and such powers shall be in addition to the powers provided for under this Act and not in derogation thereof. Search and seizure 31B. (1) In this section, “premises” includes— (a) any land, building or part of any building; (b) any place whether open or enclosed; (c) any conveyance; (d) any installation on land, offshore installation or other installation whether on the bed of or floating on any water; and (e) any structure movable or immovable. (2) When an authorized officer has reasonable cause to believe that an offence under this Act or a ny regulations made under this Act has been or is being committed in any premises or in connection with any business carried on in any premises, the authorized officer may at any reasonable time by day or by night and with or without assistance— (a) enter the premises and if need be by force; 

 Poisons 37 (b) search the premises for, and to seize or remove from the premises any poison, psychotropic substance, receptacle, package, conveyance, machinery, contrivance, equipment, book, register, record, document, computerized dat a or other article that is reasonably believed to furnish evidence of the commission of such offence; (c) inspect or require any person to produce for the purpose of inspection— (i) any substance reasonably believed to be or to contain any poison or psychotropic substance; (ii) conveyance, machinery, contrivance, equipment, book, register, record, document, computerized data or other article, which in his opinion may furnish evidence of the commission of an offence under this Act or any regulations made under this Act; (d) take samples of any poison or psychotropic substance found in the premises for the purpose of ascertaining, by testing or otherwise, whether any offence under this Act or any regulations made under this Act has been committed; or (e) make copies of or take extracts from any book, register, record, document, computerized data or other article found in the premises. (3) An authorized officer entering any premises under this section may take with him any other person and equipment as may appear to him to be necessary. (4) The owner, occupier or any person who has control of such premises or who is present at such premises, shall permit every authorized officer and any other person referred to in subsection (3) to have access to the premises for the purp oses specified in this section and shall supply to the authorized officer all such information as may be requested by the authorized officer, and shall afford the authorized 

38 Laws of Malaysia ACT 366 officer such assistance as may be reasonably necessary for such purposes. (5) An authorized officer may, in the exercise of his powers under this section, if it is necessary so to do— (a) break open any outer or inner door of the premises or any fence, enclosure, gate or other obstruction to the premises, in order to effect entry into the premises; (b) remove by force any obstruction to entry, search, seizure or removal as he is empowered to effect under this section; and (c) detain any person found in the premises until the search has been completed. (6) Where, by reason of its nature, size or amount, it is not practicable to remove any poison, psychotropic substance, receptacle, package, conveyance, machinery, contrivance, equipment, book, register, record, document, computerized data or other article seized under this section, the authorized officer shall, by any means, seal such poison, psychotropic substance, receptacle, package, conveyance, machinery, contrivance, equipment, book, register, record, document, computerized data or other article in the premises or container in which it is found. (7) A person who, without lawful authority, breaks, tampers with or damages the seal referred to in subsection (6) or removes the poison, psychotropic substance, receptacle, package, conveyance, machinery, contrivance, equipment, book, register, re cord, document, computerized data or other article under seal or attempts to do so shall be guilty of an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding ten thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding two years or to both. (8) Any person who— (a) obstructs or impedes an authorized officer in the performance of his duties under this Act or any regulations made under this Act; 

 Poisons 39 (b) refuses or neglects to comply with any requisition made in pursuance of this section; or (c) gives or supplies any false or misleading statement or information to an authorized officer, shall be guilty of an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding ten thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding two years or to both. Power to access premises and land 31C. (1) An authorized officer shall have access to any premises or land for the purpose of— (a) inspecting any substance reasonably believed to be or to contain any poison or any psychotropic substance, receptacle, package, conveyance, machinery, contrivance, equipment, book, register, record, document, computerized data or other article as he considers necessary; (b) verifying the accuracy of any book, register, record, document, computerized data, statement or any information given to an authorized officer, and make copies of or take extracts from such book, register, record, document, computerized data or statement found in the premises or land; or (c) collecting samples of any substance reasonably believed to be or to contain any poison or psychotropic substance found in the premises or land. (2) For the purposes of this section, an authorized officer may without payment, demand, select, take or collect samples of any substance reasonably believed to be or to c ontain any poison or psychotropic substance from any person, or such person’s agent or servant importing, exporting, manufacturing, selling, supplying, using or having possession of such substance. 

40 Laws of Malaysia ACT 366 Power to require information and documents 31D. (1) An authorized officer, in carrying out an investigation under this Act, may make an order by a written notice under subsection (2), if he has reason to believe that a person— (a) has any information or any document that is relevant to the performance of the a uthorized officer’s powers and functions under this Act; or (b) is capable of giving any evidence which the authorized officer has reason to believe is relevant to the performance of the authorized officer’s powers and functions under this Act. (2) The order made by an authorized officer under subsection (1) may direct the person— (a) to provide any information to the authorized officer, within the period and in the manner and form specified in the notice; (b) to produce any document to the authorized officer, within the period and in the manner specified in the notice, whether in physical form or in electronic form; (c) to make copies of any document, or extracts from any document and to produce copies or extracts of such document, as the case may be, t o the authorized officer within the period and in the manner specified in the notice; (d) if the person is an individual, to appear before the authorized officer at a time and place specified in the notice to give any information, either orally or in writing, and produce such document, whether in physical form or in electronic form; (e) if the person is a body corporate, to cause and authorize a relevant and competent officer of the body corporate to appear before the authorized officer at a time and place specified in the notice to give any information, either 

 Poisons 41 orally or in writing, and produce such document, whether in physical form or in electronic form; (f) if the person is a partnership, to cause an individual who is a partner in the partnership or an employee of the partnership to appear before the authorized officer at a time and place specified in the notice to give any information, either orally or in writing, and produce such document, whether in physical form or in electronic form; or (g) to make a statement to the authorized officer providing an explanation of any information or document within the period and in the manner and form specified in the notice. (3) Where the authorized officer directs any person to produce any document under subsection (2) an d the person does not have custody of the document, that person shall— (a) state, to the best of his knowledge and belief, where the document may be found; and (b) identify, to the best of his knowledge and belief, the person who has custody of the document or t he last person who had custody of the document, as the case may be, and state, to the best of his knowledge and belief, where the person may be found. (4) Any person directed to provide information or document under subsection (2) shall— (a) provide the required information or document within such time as specified in the notice or such extended time as the authorized officer may grant; and (b) ensure that the information or document provided is true, accurate and complete and such person shall provide an express representation to that effect, including a declaration that he is not aware of any other information or document which would make the information or document provided untrue or misleading. 

42 Laws of Malaysia ACT 366 (5) Any person who fails to complt with the order made by the authorized officer under subsection (1) commits an offence. Access to recorded information, computerized data, etc. 31E. (1) Any authorized officer exercising his powers under this Act shall be given access to any recorded information, or computerized data, whether stored in a computer or otherwise. (2) In exercising his powers, the authorized officer may— (a) inspect and check the operation of any computer and any associated apparatus or material which the authorized officer has reasonable cause to suspect is or has been used in connection with that information or data; (b) require the person— (i) whom the authorized officer has reasonable cause to suspect is using or to have used the computer in connection with that information or data; (ii) whom the authorized of ficer has reasonable cause to suspect that the computer is used or has been used, on behalf of the person, in connection with that information or data; or (iii) having charge of, or is otherwise concerned with, the operation of the computer, apparatus or material, to provide him with such reasonable assistance as he may require for the purposes of this section. (3) The authorized officer may make copies of or take extracts from the recorded information or computerized data, if he deems it necessary. (4) Any recorded information or computerized data obtained under subsection (1) shall be admissible in evidence notwithstanding any other provisions in any written law to the contrary. 

 Poisons 43 (5) For the purposes of this section, “access” includes being provided with t he necessary password, encryption code, decryption code, software or hardware and any other means required to enable comprehension of the recorded information or computerized data. No cost or damag es arising from entry, search or seizure to be recoverable 31F. No person shall, in respect of any entry or search, or seizure of any poison, psychotropic substance or other substances, or seizure of any receptacle, package, conveyance, machinery, contrivance, equipment, book, register, record, document, computerized data or other articles, seized or surrendered in the exercise or the purported exercise of any power conferred under this Act, be entitled to recover the costs of such entry, search, or seizure or to claim any damages or other relief unless such entry, search, or seizure was made without reasonable cause. Penalties 32. (1) Any person who wilfully fails to keep any register required to be kept under this Act or under any regulation made thereunder or who wilfully fails to make in such register any entry required to be made by any of this Act or of any regulation made thereunder or who knowingly or recklessly makes any false entry in such register which he knew to be false or which he did not believe to be true shall be guilty of an offence and punishable by a fine not exceeding five thousand ringgit or by imprisonment for a term not exceeding two years or both. (2) Any person guilty of an offence against this Act, for which no other penalty is specifically provided by this Act or by any regulations made thereunder, shall be punishable by a fine not exceeding *fifty thousand ringgit or by imprisonment for a term not exceeding **five years or both: Provided that if the act or omission with which such person is charged is in the opinion of the court of such a nature as to amount to *NOTE —Previously “three” —see subparagraph 20( b)(i) of the Poisons (Amendment) Act 2022 [Act A1666 ]. **NOTE—Previously “one year” —see subparagraph 20(b)(ii) of the Poisons (Amendment) Act 2022 [Act A1666 ]. 

44 Laws of Malaysia ACT 366 wilful default or culpable negligence, which endangered or was likely to endanger human life, such person shall be liable, on conviction, to a fine not exceeding *two hundred thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding **ten years or both. (3) Where a person charged with an offence against this Act or of any regulation made thereunder is a body corporate every person who, at the time of the commission of such offence, is a director or officer of such body corporate may be charged jointly in the same proceedings with such body corporate and where the body corporate is convicted of the offence charged, every such director or officer shall be deemed to be guilty of such offence unless he proves that the off ence was committed without his knowledge or that he took reasonable precautions to prevent its commission. (4) Any person who would have been liable under this Act or of any regulation made thereunder to any penalty for anything done or omitted if such thing had been done or omitted by him personally, shall be liable to the same penalty if such thing has been done or omitted by his partner, agent or servant, unless he proves that he took reasonable precaution to prevent the doing or omission of such thing. (5) Any poison, psychotropic substance, receptacle, package, conveyance, machinery, contrivance, equipment, book, register, record, document, computerized data or other article in respect of which an offence against this Act has been committed shall be forfeited and shall be disposed of in such manner as the Licensing Officer may direct. (6) Every penalty or forfeiture imposed under this Act shall be in addition to, and not in substitution for, any other penalty to which the accused may be liable unde r any other law, and no conviction under this Act shall be pleaded in any civil proceedings in mitigation of damages claimed against the person convicted. *NOTE—Previously “five ”—see subsubparagraph 20(b)(iii)(A) of the Poisons (Amendment) Act 2022 [Act A1666]. **NOTE—Previously “two”—see subsubparagraph 20(b)(iii)(B) of the Poisons (Amendment) Act 2022 [Act A1666]. 

 Poisons 45 Compounding of offences *32A. (1) The Minister may, with the approval of the Public Prosecutor, make regulations prescribing— (a) any offence under this Act and any regulations made under this Act as an offence which may be compounded; and (b) the method and procedure for compounding such offence. (2) The Director General of Health or any Drug Enfo rcement Officer appointed by the Director General of Health may, with the written consent of the Public Prosecutor, compound any offence committed by any person under this Act and any regulations made under this Act and prescribed to be a compoundable offence by making a written offer to the person suspected of committing the offence to compound the offence on payment to the Director General of Health of an amount of money not exceeding fifty per cent of the amount of the maximum fine for that offence withi n the time specified in the offer. (3) An offer under subsection (2) may be made at any time after the offence has been committed but before any prosecution for it has been instituted. (4) If the amount specified in the offer is not paid within the tim e specified in the offer or such extended time as the Director General of Health may grant, prosecution for the offence may be instituted at any time after that against the person to whom the offer was made. (5) Where an offence has been compounded under this section— (a) no prosecution shall be instituted in respect of the offence against the person to whom the offer to compound was made; and *NOTE— Section 32 A which has been inserted by section 21 of the Poisons (Amendment) Act 2022 [Act A1666 ] comes into force on 1 January 2024 —see P.U. (B) 580/2023. 

46 Laws of Malaysia ACT 366 (b) any substance, goods or article seized in connection with the offence, shall be forfeited, destroyed or released by the Director General of Health subject to such terms and conditions as may be imposed. Sessions or Magistrate’s Court, to have full jurisdiction over offences against this Act 33. A Sessions Court or a Court of a First Class Magistrate in Peninsular Ma laysia or a Sessions Court in the State of Sabah or Sarawak shall have jurisdiction to hear and determine all prosecutions under this Act and, notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any other written law, a Sessions Court shall have power to impose the full penalty or punishment provided by this Act. Sanction to prosecute and conduct of prosecutions 34. (1) No prosecution shall be instituted under this Act or any regulation made thereunder without the sanction in writing of the Public Prosecutor. (2) Prosecutions in respect of offences under this Act or any regulation made thereunder may be conducted by any registered pharmacist in the public service authorized in writing by the Public Prosecutor. Protection against suits and legal proceedings 34A. No action shall lie or prosecution shall be brought, instituted or maintained in any court against— (a) any Licensing Officer, authorized officer or member of the Poisons Board for any act done by him; or (b) any other person for any act done by hi m under the order, direction or instruction of the Licensing Officer, authorized officer or the Poisons Board, 

 Poisons 47 if the act was done in good faith and in the reasonable belief that it was necessary for the carrying into effect the provisions of this Act or its regulations. Evidence of agent provocateur is admissible 34B. Notwithstanding any written law or rule of law to the contrary, in any proceedings against any person for an offence under this Act or its regulations— (a) no agent provocateur, whether he is an authorized officer or not, shall be presumed to be an accomplice or be unworthy of credit as a witness by reason only of his having attempted to commit or to abet, or having abetted or having been engaged in a criminal conspiracy to commit, such offence if the main purpose of such attempt, abetment or engagement was to secure evidence against such person; (b) any statement whether oral or in writing made to an agent provocateur by any person shall be admissible in evidence at his trial; and (c) a conviction for any offence under this Act or its regulations solely on the uncorroborated evidence of any agent provocateur shall not be illegal and no such conviction shall be set aside merely because the court which tried the case has failed to refer in the grounds of its judgment to the need to warn itself against the danger of convicting on such evidence. Electronic transaction 34C. (1) Where a written order under section 15 or 23 is in the form of an electronic message, the requirement of the Act is fulfilled if it is obtained, forwarded, served, sent, delivered, received or retained in accordance with the Electronic Commerce Act 2006 [Act 658] and any other requirements as may be prescribed under this Act. 

48 Laws of Malaysia ACT 366 (2) Where any provision under this Act requires a s ignature of a person on a document, otherwise than on a prescription, the requirement of the Act is fulfilled, if the document is in the form of an electronic message containing a signature in accordance with the Electronic Commerce Act 2006. Regulations 35. (1) The Minister may make regulations to carry out the purposes of this Act and, in particular, but without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing powers, may make regulations with respect to any of the following matters or for any of the following purposes: (a) the importation of poisons; (b) the manufacture of preparations containing poisons; (c) the sale, whether by wholesale or retail, or the supply of poisons, by or to any person or class of persons including— (i) regulating or restricting the sale or supply of poisons by persons licensed or authorized under this Act and prohibiting the sale of any specified poison or class of poisons by any class of such persons; and (ii) dispensing with, or relaxing with respect to any specified poison, any of the provisi ons contained in this Act, or in any regulation made thereunder relating to the sale or supply of poisons; (ca) the use of poisons; (d) the storage, transport and labelling of poisons; (e) the containers in which poisons may be sold or supplied; (f) the addition t o poisons of specified ingredients for the purpose of rendering them readily distinguishable as poisons; 

 Poisons 49 (g) the compounding and dispensing of poisons; (h) prescribing the manner in which any register, book, prescription, written order and any other documents including documents in electronic form, should be kept and maintained and the period for which such register, book, prescription, written order and any other documents required to be kept for the purposes of this Act are to be preserved; (i) requiring persons i n control of the manufacture of pharmaceutical preparations containing poisons to be registered pharmacists or persons possessing the prescribed qualifications in chemistry; (j) prescribing the coverings, stoppers and fastenings of and the marks to be placed or made on or on the coverings of or on the labels affixed to any vessel, bottle, case, package, box or other receptacle or container whatsoever in which any poison is kept, stored, sold or in any way dealt with; (k) providing exemption from any of the provis ions or the operation of this Act or of any regulation made thereunder of such persons or classes of persons as may seem expedient; (l) prescribing the form of licences, registers , books, prescriptions, written orders and returns; (m) fixing fees and exempting a ny person or body of persons from the payment of such fees; (n) prescribing anything which may be prescribed under this Act; (o) the import, manufacture, possession, sale or use of lead tetra ethyl, ethyl petrol or concentrated ethyl fluid; 

50 Laws of Malaysia ACT 366 (p) prescribing penaltie s not exceeding the penalties prescribed in subsection 32(2) for contravention of any regulation made under this section; (q) the sale, whether by wholesale or retail, or the supply of psychotropic substances by or to any person or class of persons; (r) the stor age, transport and labelling of psychotropic substances; (s) the compounding, dispensing and mixing of psychotropic substances; (t) the import, export, manufacture, possession, purchase , administration or use of psychotropic substances; (u) requiring persons in pos session of psychotropic substances to keep and maintain a register and prescribing the manner in which the register should be maintained; (v) prescribing the mode or the manner of disposal and sampling of poisons or psychotrophic substances; (w) prescribing the records to be kept by a licensed pharmacist including records of attendance and roster of a registered pharmacist employed or engaged in a premises where a licensed pharmacist is licensed to retail poisons. Confirmation of Regulations (2) All regulation s made by the Minister under this Act shall be published in the Gazette and shall come into force on the date of publication or on such other date as may be provided therein. (3) All such regulations shall be laid as soon as conveniently may be before th e House of Representative and if a resolution of the House of Representative is passed within the next three months after any such regulation is laid befor e it that such regulation shall be 

 Poisons 51 annulled as from a specified date such regulation shall be void as from such date but without prejudice to the validity of anything done under such regulation before such date or to the making of a new regulation. 

 Poisons 56 FIRST SCHEDULE POISONS LIST [Section 2] Names Part 1 Part II Exempt Group A Group B Group C Group D Abacavir; its salts - All preparations Abatacept - All preparations Abemaciclib - All preparations Abiraterone - All preparations Acalabrutinib - All preparations Acarbose - - All preparations Acebutolol; its salts - All preparations Aceclofenac - All preparations Acepifylline - - All preparations Acetanilide; alkylacetanilides - All preparations unless exempted - - - Preparations not for the internal treatment of human ailments Acetazolamide - All preparations - All preparations Acetic anhydride - - - All preparations Acetohexamide - - All preparations N-acetylanthranilic acid All preparations Acetyl bromide - - - All preparations Acetyl chloride - - - All preparations Acetylcarbromal - - All preparations Acetylcholine; its salts - All preparations Acetylcysteine - - All preparations for parenteral administration - - All preparations unless in Group C Acitretin - All preparations Aclidinium bromide - All preparations Acyclovir - All preparations except those in Group C Preperations containing not more than 5% w/w of Acyclovir for topical use N-(Adamantanyl)(5- fluoropentyl)-1H-indazole carboxamide (5F-APINACA) - All preparations N-(Adamantanyl) pentyl- 1H-indazole carboxamide (APINACA) - All preparations 

 Poisons 53 Adapalene - All preparations Adefovir dipivoxil - All preparations Adenosine - - Medicinal preparations unless exempted All preparations unless in Group C or exempted - (1) Raw cordyceps (2) Product which is registered under the Control of Drugs and Cosmetics Regulations 1984 containing adenosine from natural resources (3) Cosmetic which is notified under the Control of Drugs and Cosmetics Regulations 1984 (4) Food (5) Its analogues, homologues, compounds, intermediates, derivatives, esters, ethers, salts and other substances structurally derived Adrenaline Adrenaline including betaagonist in animal feeds - Preparations other than those in Group A - - Afatinib - All preparations Aflibercept - All preparations Afoxolaner - Preparations for animal treatment Agomelatine - All preparations Albutrepenonacog alfa - All preparations Alcaftadine - All preparations Alclofenac All preparations Alcuronium chloride - All preparations Alectinib - All preparations Alefacept - All preparations Alendronic acid; its salts - All preparations Alfuzosin; its salts - All preparations Aliskiren - All preparations Alkaloids; the following: their salts, simple or complex; their quaternary compounds: All preparations unless in Group C - All products registered under the Control of Drugs and Cosmetics Regulations 1984 

 54 Laws of Malaysia ACT 366 Aconite, alkaloids of - - All preparations Atropine - - All preparations Belladonna, alkaloids of - - All preparations Brucine - - All preparations unless exempted - - Surgical spirit containing not more than 0.015% of brucine Calabar bean, alkaloids of - - All preparations Colchicine Veterinary preparations for food-producing animals - All preparations unless in Group A Coniine Strengths of 10% and over of base - Strength under 10% of base Cotarnine Strengths of 10% and over of base - Curare, alkaloids of Strengths of 10% Strengths of 10% and under Emetine - - All preparations unless exempted - - Strengths of less than 0.05% emetine; ipecacuanha; extracts and tinctures of ipecacuanha Ephedra, alkaloids of - - All preparations unless exempted - - Raw herbs containing ephedra alkaloids Ergot, alkaloids of - - All preparations Gelsemium, alkaloids of - - All preparations Homatropine - - All preparations Hyoscine - - All preparations unless exempted - - Stramonium contained in preparations for the relief of asthma in the form of cigarettes, smoking mixtures or fumigants Jaborandi, alkaloids of - - All preparations unless exempted - - Strengths less than 0.25% of the alkaloids of Jaborandi Lobelia, alkaloids of - - All preparations unless exempted - - Cigarettes, smoking mixtures or fumigants for the relief of asthma; strengths less than 0.1% Mitragynine All preparations unless in Group D - - Preparations for laboratory use 

 Poisons 55 Nicotine - - All preparations unless exempted - - (1) Tobacco (2) Product in the form of patch or gum to be used as an aid for smoking cessation, which is registered under the Control of Drugs and Cosmetics Regulations 1984 (3) Preparation of a kind used for smoking through electronic cigarette and electric vaporizing device, in the form of liquid or gel Noscapine - - All preparations Nux Vomica, alkaloids of Strengths of 1.2% and over of Strychnine - Strengths under 1.2% of Strychnine Papaverine - - All preparations unless exempted - - Exhausted poppy capsules Physostigmine - - All preparations Pilocarpine - - All preparations unless exempted - - Strengths of 0.25% of base and under Piper methysticum (kava- kava); its salts All preparations - Quebracho, alkaloids of - - All preparations unless exempted - - Alkaloids of red Quebracho Rauwolfia, alkaloids of - - All preparations Sabadilla, alkaloids of - - All preparations Solanaceous alkaloids, unless specified elsewhere in the List - - All preparations unless exempted - - Cigarettes, smoking mixtures or fumigants for the relief of asthma Stavesacre, alkaloids of - - All preparations unless exempted - - Contained in soaps, ointments and lotions for external use Strychnine Strengths of 1.2% of base and over - Strengths under 1.2% of base Veratrum, alkaloids of - - All preparations Vinca, alkaloids of - All preparations Yohimba, alkaloids of - - All preparations Allergens - (1) All preparations for therapeutic use (2) In-vivo diagnostic test kits - - - (1) All preparations unless in Group B (2) Preparation for laboratory use Allopurinol - All preparations 

 56 Laws of Malaysia ACT 366 Alogliptin - All preparations Alpelisib - All preparations Alphadolone acetate - All preparations Alpha-Phenylacetoacetamide (APAA) - - - - All preparations Alpha-Phenylacetoacetonitrile (APAAN) - - - - All preparations Alpha-Pyrrolidinohexanophenone (Alpha-PHP, PV-7) - All preparations Alphaxolone - All preparations Alprenolol; its salts - All preparations Alseroxylon - - All preparations Alteplase - All preparations Alverine citrate - - All preparations Amantadine and other substances structurally derived therefrom; their salts unless specified elsewhere in the List - All preparations Ambrisentan - All preparations Amfepramone - All preparations Amidopyrine; its salts All preparations All preparations Amifostine; its salts; its esters - All preparations Amiloride; its salts - All preparations Amilsulpride - All preparations Amino acids, unless specified elsewhere in the List N-[(2S)Aminomethyl oxobutan-2yl] (cyclohexylmethyl)-1H-indazolecarboxamide (AB- CHMINACA) (DD) - - - All preparations All preparations for parenteral administration - - All preparations unless in Group C N-[(2S)Aminomethyl oxobutanyl][(4- fluorophenyl)methyl]indazole carboxamide (AB-FUBINACA) - All preparations 2-Amino(2,5-dimethoxy methyl) phenylpropane (DD) - All preparations N-[(2S)Amino-3,3-dimethyl oxobutanyl] (cyclohexylmethyl)-1H-indazolecarboxamide (ADB- CHMINACA, MAB- CHMINACA) (DD) - All preparations 

 Poisons 57 N-[(2S)Amino-3,3-dimethyl oxobutanyl][(4- fluorophenyl) methyl] -1H- indazolecarboxamide (ADB - FUBINACA) (DD) - All preparations N-[(2S)Aminomethyl oxobutanyl]pentyl-1H- indazolecarboxamide (AB- PINACA) (DD) - All preparations Aminoglutethimide - All preparations Aminometradine - All preparations Aminophylline - - All preparations Aminopterine - All preparations Aminorex - All preparations Amiodarone; its salts - - All preparations p-Amino salicyclic acid and other substances structurally derived therefrom; their salts; their esters - - All preparations Amiphenazole; its salts - - All preparations Aminometradine - All preparations Amitriptyline; its salts - All preparations Amlodipine - All preparations Ammonia - - - - 5% and above (1) Below 5% (2) Ammonia inside cooling units of a refrigerator, air conditioner and smelling bottles (3) Its analogues, homologues, compounds, intermediates, derivatives, esters, ethers, salts and other subtances structurally derive Amorolfine - All preparations unless in Group C or exempted All preparations for external use unless exempted All preparations for external use containing not more than 5% of Amorolfine Amphetamine (DD); its salts - All preparations Amprolium - All preparations Amrinone; its salts - All preparations Amyl nitrite - - All preparations Anagrelide - All preparations Anastrozole - All preparations Anidulafungin - All preparations 4-Anilino-N- phenethylpiperidine (ANPP) - - - - All preparations 

 58 Laws of Malaysia ACT 366 Anistreplae - All preparations Anthranilic acid; its salts - - - All preparations Antibiotics, all substances of; their synthetic preparations; their salts; unless stated elsewhere in the List All preparations unless in Group B, Group C, Group D and Part II All preparations in pharmaceutical dosage forms and beterinary preparations compounded with one or more ingredients intended for inclusion in animal feeds unless in Group A, Group C, Group D and Part II Suppositories and preparations for topical use in the nose, eyes and ears. Lozenges and preparations for external use only Preparations for laboratory use When compounded with animal feeds Anticoagulant substances, including heparin and other substances structurally derived from coumarin and phenindione unless specified elsewhere in the List - All preparations for human use unless in Group C Preparations for human external use only Antihistamines; the following: - All preparations Acrivastine Antazoline Astemizole Azatadine Azelastine Bamipine Bilastine Bromodiphenhydramine Brompheniramine Buclizine Carbinoxamine Cetirizine Chlorcyclizine Chlorpheniramine Cinnarizine Clemastine Clemizole Cyclizine Cyproheptadine Desloratadine 3-Dibutylaminomethyl -4, 5, 6-trihydroxy isobenzo-furanone Dimenhydrinate Diphenhydramine Diphenylpyraline Doxylamine Ebastine Emedastine Epinastine Fexofenadine Isothipendyl - - All preparations 

 Poisons 59 Levocetrizine Loratadine Mebhydrolin Meclozine Mequitazine Olopatadine Phenindamine Pheniramine Phenyltoloxamine Promethazine Pyrrobutamine Rupatadine Terfenadine Thenalidine Tolpropamine Triprolidine Substances being tetra-N substituted derivatives of ethylenediamine and propylenediamine Antimony; its chlorides, oxides, sulphides, antimonates, antimonites; organic compounds of antimony - - All medicinal preparations - Preparations other than medicinal preparations Apalutamide - All preparations Apixaban - All preparations Apomorphine; its salts - - All preparations Apraclodine; its salts - All preparations Apremilast - All preparations Aprepitant - All preparations Apronalide - - All preparations Aprotinin - All preparations Aripiprazole - All preparations Arsenic; its organic and inorganic compounds - - All medicinal preparations unless exempted Preparations other than medicinal preparations unless exempted - (1) Cosmetic which is notified under the Control of Drugs and Cosmetics Regulations 1984 [P.U. (A) 223/1984] containing not more than 5 parts per million of arsenic calculated as the metal; (2) Product which is registered under the Control of Drugs and Cosmetic Regulations 1984 [P.U. (A) 223/1984] containing not more than 5 parts per million of arsenic calculated as the metal Artemether - All preparations 

 60 Laws of Malaysia ACT 366 Artesunate - All preparations Asenapine - All preparations L-Asparaginase - All preparations unless exempted - - - L-Asparaginase when used as food additive Atazanavir - All preparations Atenolol; its salts - All preparations Atomoxetine; its salts - All preparations Atorvastatin Calcium - All preparations Atosiban - All preparations Atracurium; its salts - All preparations Avanafil - All preparations Avelumab - All preparations Avoparcin All preparations Axitinib - All preparations Azacyclonol; its salts - All preparations Azaperone - All preparations Azapropazone - All preparations Azathioprine; its salts - All preparations Azelaic Acid - All medicinal preparations unless in Group C Medicinal preparations for external use All preparations unless in Group B or Group C - Its analogues, homologues, compounds, intermediates, derivatives, esters, ethers, salts and other subst ances structurally derived Azilsartan - All preparations Baclofen; its salts - All preparations Baloxavir marboxil - All preparations Balsalazide disodium - All preparations Bambuterol All preparations for use in animal feeds - Preparations other than those in Group A Barbituric acid - All preparations Baricitinib - All preparations Barium; salts of - - All preparations for diagnostic or therapeutic use All preparations unless in Group C or exempted - Witherite other than finely ground witherite: Barium Sulphate other than those in Group C Becaplermin - All preparations Beclamide - All preparations Bedaquiline - All preparations Befunolol; its salts - All preparations Bemegride - - All preparations Benactyzine; its salts - - All preparations Benazepril; its salts - All preparations Bencyclane; its salts - All preparations Bendamustine - All preparations Benproperine; its salts - - All preparations Benserazide; its salts - All preparations Benzbromarone - All preparations Benzhexol; its salts - All preparations Benzoctamine; its salts - All preparations 1,4-Benzodiazepine - All preparations 

 Poisons 61 unless specified elsewhere in the List Benzoquinonium chloride - All preparations Benzphetamine - All preparations Benzquinamide - - All preparations Benztropine; its homologues; their salts - - All preparations Benzydamine; its salts - - All preparations N-Benzylpiperazine (BZP) - All preparations Bepridil; its salts - All preparations Beroctocog alfa - All preparations Betahistine; its salts - - All preparations Betaxolol; its salts - All preparations Bethanechol; its salts - All preparations Bethanidine; its salts - - All preparations Bevonium; its salts - - All preparations Bicalutamide - All preparations Bifonazole - All preparations unless in Group C Preparations for external use Bimatoprost - All preparations Biperiden; its salts - All preparations Bismuth; its salts - All medicinal preparations unless in Group C or exempted Suppositories and medicinal preparations for external use unless exempted All preparations unless in Group B, Group C or exempted Cosmetics including those for the eye, containing bismuth oxychloride as a pearling or colouring agent Bisoprolol fumarate - All preparations Bitolterol All preparations for use in animal feeds - Preparations other than those in Group A Bleomycin; its salts - All preparations Boceprevir - All preparations Bopindolol - All preparations Boric acid and Sodium borate - - All medicinal preparations unless exempted Preparations other than medicinal preparations unless exempted - (1) Preparations containing not more than 5% of Boric acid, or 5% of Sodium borate, or 5% of a combination of Boric acid and Sodium borate. (2) Preparations ready for use as pesticides or fertilizers (3) Its analogues, homologues, compounds, intermediates, derivatives, esters, ethers, salts and other substances structurally derived Bortezomib - All preparations Botulinum toxin - All preparations 

 62 Laws of Malaysia ACT 366 Bretylium; its salts - All preparations Brexpiprazole - All preparations Brigatinib - All preparations Brimonidine; its salts - All preparations Brinzolamide - All preparations Bromhexine - - All preparations for parenteral administration - - All preparations unless in Group C Bromides, inorganic and Ammonium bromide, for therapeutic use - - All preparations Bromocriptine; its salts - All preparations 2-(4-Bromo-2,5- dimethoxyphenyl)-N-(2- methoxybenzyl)ethanamine (25B- NBOMe) (DD) - All preparations Bromvaletone - - All preparations Brotizolam - All preparations Broxaterol All preparations for use in animal feeds - Preparations other than those in Group A Bucolome - - All preparations Bufexamac - - All preparations Buflomedil; its salts - - All preparations Bufotenine; its esters and ethers: their salts - All preparations Bumadizone; its salts - - All preparations Bumetanide - All preparations Bunazosin; its salts - All preparations Buprenorphine - All preparations Bupropion - All preparations Buisulphan; its salts - All preparations Buspirone; its salts - All preparations Butamirate; its salts - - All preparations Butinoline; its salts - - All preparations Butoconazole - All preparations unless in Group C Pessaries. Preparations for external use Butorphanol; its salts (DD) - All preparations Butriptyline; its salts - All preparations Butropium; its salts - - All preparations Tert-Butyl 4- (phenylamino)piperidine carboxylate (1-bocAP) - - - All preparations Cabazitaxel - All preparations Cabergoline - All preparations Cabozantinib - All preparations Caffeine - - - - All preparations unless exempted (1) Caffeine in (i) food or beverages (ii) cosmetic which is notified under the 

 Poisons 63 Control of Drugs and Cosmetics Regulations 1984 (iii) product which is registered under the Control of Drugs and Cosmetics Regulations 1984 (2) Its analogues, homologues, compounds, intermediates, derivatives, esters, ethers, salts and other substances structurally derived Calcipotriol - - All preparations Calcitonin - All preparations Calcitriol - - All preparations unless exempted - - Product which is registered under the Control of Drugs and Cosmetics Regulations 1984 other than product for parenteral administration Calcium carbimide - All preparations Calcium dobesilate - All preparations Calcium folinate - - All preparations for parenteral adminstration - - All preparations unless in Group C Calcium gluconate - - All preparations for parenteral adminstration - - All preparations unless in Group C Calcium polystyrene - All preparations Calfactant - All preparations Camylofine; its salts - - All preparations Canaglifozin - All preparations Candesartan; its salts - All preparations Cannabidiol - All preparations Cantharidin; cantharides; cantharidates - Strengths over 0.01% of cantharidin or its equivalent Strengths of 0.01% or less of cantharidin or its equivalent Capecitabine - All preparations Capmatinib - All preparations Captodiamine; it salts - - All preparations Captopril - All preparations Caramiphen; its salts, except caramiphen edisylate All preparations unless in Group C Tablets containing not more than the equivalent of 7.5 mg of caramiphen base and liquid preparations containing not more than the equivalent of 

 64 Laws of Malaysia ACT 366 0.1% of caramiphen base Caramiphen edisylate - - All preparations Carbachol - All preparations Carbadox All preparations Carbamazepine - All preparations Carbarsone - - All preparations Carbazochrome Sodium Sulphonate - All preparations Carbenoxolone; its salts - All preparations unless in Group C Preparations for topical use in the mouth or throat Carbetapentane; its salts - - All preparations Carbidopa - All preparations Carbimazole; its salts - All preparations Carboplatin - All preparations Carbromal - All preparations Carbromide - All preparations Carbutamide - - All preparations Carfilzomib - All preparations Cariprazine - All preparations Carisoprodol - All preparations Carmustine; its salts - All preparations Carperidine; its salts - - All preparations Carprofen - All preparations Carteolol; its salts - All preparations Carvedilol - All preparations Cathine - All preparations Cathinone (DD) - All preparations CBPU or Chlorbenzen- sulfonylpyrrolidinourea - - All preparations Celecoxib - All preparations Cerebrolysin - All preparations Ceritinib - All preparations Cerivastatin; its salts - All preparations Cetrorelix All preparations Chenodeoxycholic acid - All preparations Chlophedianol; its salts - Strengths of 1.5% and over Strengths less than 1.5% Chloral; its condensation products, its addition products; their molecular compounds - - All medicinal preparations Preparations other than medicinal preparations Chlorambucil; its salts - All preparations Chloramphenicols and other substances structually derived therefrom, their salts; their esters All preparations unless in Group B, Group C anD Group D All preparations in pharmaceutical dosage form unless in Group C and Group D Preparations for topical use in the nose, eyes and ears. Preparations for external use only Preparations for laboratory use Chlormerodrine - All preparations Chlormethiazole; its salts - All preparations 

 Poisons 65 2-(4-Chloro-2,5- dimethoxyphenyl)-N-(2- methoxybenzyl) ethanamine(25C- NBOMe) (DD) - All preparations Chlormezanone - All preparations Chlormidazole; its salts - All preparations unless in Group C Pessaries. Preparations for external use Chloroform Veterinary preparations for food- producing animals - Medicinal preparation unless in Group A or exempted All preparation unless in Group A, Group C or exempted - (1) Strengths under 10% unless in Group A (2) Its analogues, homologues, compounds, intermediates, derivatives, esters, ethers, salts and other substances structurally derived 4-Chloromethcathinone - All preparations Chloroquine; its salts - - All preparations Chlorothiazide and other substances structurally derived from benzothiadiazine - All preparations Chlorphenoxamine; its salts - All preparations Chlorphentermine; its salts - All preparations Chlorpromazine Veterinary preparations for food-producing animals All preparations unless in Group A Chlorpropamide; its salts - - All preparations Chlorprothixene and other substances structurally derived from 9-methylenethioxanthene; their salts - All preparations Chlorthalidone and other substances structurally derived from 0-chlorbenzene Sulphonamide - All preparations Chlorzoxazone - All preparations Cholecalciferol - All medicinal preparations containing 10,000 i.u. or more of cholecalciferol per dosage unit All preparations for parenteral administration unless in Group B - - All preparations unless in Group B or Group C Cholestyramine - All preparations Cianidanol - All preparations Ciclesonide - All preparations Cicletanine; its salts - All preparations Cilazapril - All preparations Cilnidipine - All preparations Cilostazol - All preparations 

 66 Laws of Malaysia ACT 366 Cimetidine; its salts - - All preparations Cimicoxib - All preparations Cinacalcet - All preparations Cinchophen and other substances structurally derived from 4- quinolinecarboxylic acid unless specified elsewhere in the List; their salts and esters - All preparations Cisapride - All preparations Cisatracurium Besylate - All preparations Cisplatin - All preparations Citalopram; its salts - All preparations Citicoline - All preparations for parenteral administration - - - All preparations unless in Group B Cladribine - All preparations Clenbuterol All preparations for use in animal feeds - Preparations other than those in Group A Clevudine - All preparations Clidinium; its salts - - All preparations Clioquinol and other halogenated hydroxyquinoline compound except halquinol All preparations Clobazam - All preparations Clodronate disodium - All preparations Clofarabine - All preparations Clofazimine - All preparations Clofexamide; its salts - All preparations Clofibrate and other substances structurally derived therefrom; their salts and esters - All preparations Clomiphene; its salts - All preparations Clomipramine; its salts - All preparations Clonidine; its salts - All preparations Clopamide - All preparations Cloperastine; its salts - - All preparations Clopidogrel All preparations Clopidol - All preparations Clorexolone - All preparations Closantel sodium - All preparations Clothiapine - All preparations Clotiazepam - All preparations Clotrimazole - All preparations unless in Group C or exempted Pessaries - - Preparations containing clotrimazole as a single ingredient for external use Clozapine - All preparations Cobicistat - All preparations Cobimetinib - All preparations Colfoseril; its esters - All preparations Corticotrophins - All preparations 

 Poisons 67 Cortisone, hydrocortisone; their derivatives, analogues and homologues; their salts - All preparations unless in Group C Preparations for topical use in the nose, eyes, ears, mouth or throat. Preparations for external use only Creosote, obtained from wood - - - - Strengths over 50% (1) Strengths of 50% and under (2) Its analogues, homologues, compounds, intermediates, derivatives, esters, ethers, salts and other substances structurally derived Crizotinib - All preparations Crofelemer - - All preparations Cucurbitacin; its derivatives - All preparations 1-(4-Cyanobutyl)-N-(2- phenylpropan-2yl)-1H-indazolecarboxamide (CUMYL-4CN- BINACA) (DD) - All preparations Cyclarbamate - All preparations Cyclofenil - All preparations N-{[1- (Cyclohexylmethyl)-1H- indol-3yl]carbonyl} methyl-L- valinate (MDMB-CHMICA) - All preparations Cyclopentolate; its salts - - All preparations Cyclophosphamide; its salts - All preparations Cyclosporin - All preparations Cycrimine; its salts - All preparations Cyproterone acetate - All preparations Cysteamine; its salts - All preparations Cytarabine; its salts - All preparations Dabigatran - All preparations Daclatasvir - All preparations Dacomitinib - All preparations Danazol - All preparations Dantrolene; its salts - All preparations Dapagliflozin - All preparations Dapoxetine - All preparations Dapsone Veterinary preparations for food-producing animals All preparations unless in Group A Darifenacin - All preparations Darunavir - All preparations Dasabuvir - All preparations Dasatinib - All preparations 

 68 Laws of Malaysia ACT 366 Deanol; its salts - All preparations for therapeutic use Debrisoquine; its salts - All preparations Decamethonium; its salts - All preparations Decitabine - All preparations Decoquinate - All preparations Deferasirox - All preparations Deferiprone All preparations Degarelix - All preparations Dehydroemetine; its salts - All preparations Delapril; its salts - All preparations Demecarium bromide - All preparations Deserpidine; its salts - All preparations Desferrioxamine - All preparations Desflurane - All preparations Desipramine; its salts - All preparations Desvenlafaxine - All preparations DET or N, N-Diethyl tryptamine; its salts (DD) - All preparations Dexamphetamine; (DD); its salts - All preparations Dexmedetomidine; its salts - All preparations Dextromethorphan; its salts - - All preparations Dextrorphan; its salts - - All preparations Dezocine - All preparations Diacerrein - All preparations Diacetylnalorphine; its salts - All preparations Diazoxide - All preparations Dibenzepin; its salts - All preparations Diclazuril - All preparations Diclofenac; its salts - - All preparations Dicyclomine; its salts - - All preparations Didanosine - All preparations Diethazine; its salts - All preparations Diflunisal - - All preparations Digitalis antitoxin - All preparations Digitalis, glycosides of; other active principles of digitalis - All preparations containing 1 or more B.P. unit of activity in two grammes Preparations containing less than 1 B.P. unit of activity in two grammes Dihydrallazine; its salts - All preparations Diloxanide; its scompounds - All preparations Diltiazem; its salts - All preparations Dimethoxanate; its salts - - All preparations Dimethoxybromoamphetamine (DOB) (DD) - All preparations 2,5-Dimethoxy chloroamphetamine (DOC) (DD) - All preparations 

 Poisons 69 2, 5-Dimethoxyampheta- mine (DMA) (DD) - All preparations 2,5-dimethoxy-α,4- dimethylphenethylamine (STP/DOM) (DD) - All preparations 2, 5-Dimethoxy ethylamphetamine (DOET) (DD) - All preparations 1, 3-Dimethylamylamine (DMAA) All preparations All preparations Dimethyl-4,4’,- dimethoxy-5,6,5’, 6’ dimethylenedioxybiphenyl- 2, 2’- dicarboxylate(DDB); its derivatives - All preparations Dimethyl fumarate - All preparations Dimethylone - All preparations Dimetridazole All preparations Diminazene - - All preparations Dinitrocresols; their salts - - - - - All preparations Dinitronaphthols - - - - All preparations unless exempted Its analogues, homologues, compounds, intermediates, derivatives, esters, ethers, salts and other substances structurally derived Dinitrophenols - - - - All preparations unless exempted Its analogues, homologues, compounds, intermediates, derivatives, esters, ethers, salts and other substances, structurally derived Dinitrothymols - - - - All preparations unless exempted Its analogues, homologues, compounds, intermediates, derivatives, esters, ethers, salts and other substances structurally derived Diphenidine - All preparations Diphenidol hydrochloride - - All preparations Diprophylline; its compounds - - All preparations Dipyridamole - - All preparations Dipyrone All preparations Diquafosol - All preparations Disodium clodronate - All preparations Disodium edetate - - All preparations for parenteral administration - - All preparations unless in Group C Disoprofol - All preparations Disopyramide; its salts - All preparations Distigmine; its salts - All preparations Disulfiram - All medicinal preparations - Preparations other than medicina l preparations 

 70 Laws of Malaysia ACT 366 Dithienylallylamines, dithienylalkylamines; their salts - All preparations DMHP or 3-(1 dimethylheptyl) hydroxy-7,8,9,10- tetrahydro-6,6,9- trimethyl-6 H-dibenzo [b,d] pyran (DD) - All preparations DMT or N, N-Dimethyltryptamine; its salts (DD) - All preparations Dithranol - - All preparations Docetaxel - All preparations Dofetilide - All preparations Dolasetron Mesylate - All preparations Dolutegravir - All preparations Domperidone - All preparations Donepezil; its salts - All preparations Doramectin - All preparations Dorzolamide; its salts - All preparations Dothiepin; its salts - All preparations Doxapram - All preparations Doxazosin; its salts - All preparations Doxepin; its salts - All preparations Doxofylline - - All preparations Dronedarone All preparations Dropropizine - - All preparations Drospirenone - - All preparations Drotaverine; its salts - All preparations Drotrecogin alfa (Recombinant human activated Protein C) - All preparations Dulaglutide - All preparations Duloxetine; -its salts - All preparations Dupilumab - All preparations Durvalumab - All preparations Dutasteride, All preparations Dyflos - All preparations Econazole; its salts - All preparations unless in Group C Pessaries. Preparations for external use Ecothiopate iodide - All preparations Ectylurea - - All preparations Edaravone - All preparations Edoxaban - All preparations Efavirenz - All preparations Elaterin - - All preparations Elbasvir - All preparations Electrolytes; the following: Calcium chloride Potassium chloride - - All preparations for parenteral administration - - All preparations unless in Group C 

 Poisons 71 Sodium bicarbonate Sodium chloride Sodium lactate Potassium dihydrogen phosphate Potassium phosphate Sodium glycerophosphate Magnesium sulphate Elosulfase - All preparations Eltrombopag - All preparations Elvitegravir - All preparations Embutramide - - All preparations Emepromium; its salts - - All preparations Emodepside - - All preparations Empagliflozin - All preparations Emtricitabine - All preparations Emylcamate - All preparations Enalapril; its salts - All preparations Enflurane - All preparations Enfurvitide - All preparations Enphenamic acid; its salts - - All preparations Entacapone - All preparations Entecavir - All preparations Entrectinib - All preparations Enzalutamide - All preparations Eperisone; its salts - All preparations Eplerenone - All preparations Eprinomectin - All preparations Eptacog alpha - All preparations Eptifibatide - All preparations Erdosteine - All preparations All preparations Eribulin Mesylate - All preparations Erlotinib - All preparations Ertapenem sodium - All preparations Ertugliflozin - All preparations Erythrityl tetranitrate - - All preparations Erythropoietin - All preparations Esafoxolaner - All preparations Escitalopram - All preparations Esmolol; its salts - All preparations Etanercept - All preparations Etelcalcetide - All preparations Ethacrynic acid; its salts - All preparations Ethambutol; its salts - - All preparations Ethamivan - - All preparations Ethchlorvynol - All preparations Ethinamate - All preparations Ethionamide - - All preparations Ethoheptazine; its salts - All preparations Ethopropazine; its salts - All preparations 

 72 Laws of Malaysia ACT 366 Ethosuximide - All preparations Ethylamphetamine - All preparations N-Ethylhexedrone (NEH, Hexen, Ethyl-Hex) - All preparations Ethylidene diacetate - - - All preparations unless exempted - Its analogues, homologues, compounds, intermediates, derivatives, esters, ethers, salts and other substances structurally derived Ethyl ether - All preparations for Anaesthetic use - - - All preparations unless in Group B N-ethyl MDA (DD) - All preparations N-Ethylnorpentylone (Ephylone) (DD) - All preparations Ethylone (3,4- Methylenedioxy- N- ethylcathinone) - All preparations Ethylphenidate - All preparations Eticyclidine or PCE; its salts (DD) - All preparations Etidronate disodium - All preparations Etizolam - All preparations Etomidate; its salts - All preparations Etoricoxib - All preparations Etretinate - All preparations Etodolac - - All preparations Etofylline; its compounds - - All preparations Etravirine - All preparations Etryptamine; its salts (DD) - All preparations Eutylone (DD) - All preparations Everolimus - All preparations Exemestane - All preparations Exenatide - All preparations Ezetimibe - All preparations Famciclovir - All preparations Famotidine - - All preparations Fampridine - All preparations Favipiravir - All preparations Fazadinium bromide - All preparations Febuxostat - All preparations Febantel - - All preparations Felodipine - All preparations Fencamfamine - All preparations Fenetylline - All preparations Fenfluramine; its salts - All preparations Fenofibrate - All preparations Fenoterol All preparation for use in animal feeds - Preparations other than in Group A Fenoxazoline; its salts - - All preparations 

 Poisons 73 Fenpipramide; its salts - - All preparations Fenproporex - All preparations Fentiazac - - All preparations Fenticonazole; its salts - All preparations Pessaries. Preparations unless in Group C for external use Fesoteradine - All preparations Fimasartan - All preparations Finasteride - All preparations Fingolimod - All preparations Firocoxib - All preparations Flavoxate; its salts - All preparations Flecainide; its salts - All preparations Floctaphenine - - All preparations Fluanisone; its salts - All preparations Fluconazole - All preparations unless in Group C Pessaries. Preparations for external use Flucytosine - All preparations Fludarabine; its salts - All preparations Flufenamic acid; its salts; esters and ethers; their salts - All preparations Flumazenil - All preparations Flunarizine; its salts - All preparations Flunitrazepam; (DD) All preparations Flunixin - All preparations Fluorescein sodium - - All preparations for parenteral administration - - All preparations unless in Group C Fluorides, alkali; organo fluorides - - All medicinal preparations containing 3% and over 3% and over Sodium Silicoflouride or Sodium Fluoride unless in Group C - All preparations other than those in Group C or Group D 4-Fluoroamphetamine (4-FA) (DD) - All preparations 2-{[1-(4-Fluorobutyl)-1H- indazolecarbonyl]amino}-3,3- dimethylbutanoate (4-F-MDMB- BINACA, 4F-ADB, 4F-MDMB- BUTINACA) - All preparations 3-Fluoromethcathinone - All preparations [1-(5-fluoropentyl)-1H-indol yl](naphthalen yl)methanone(AM-2201) - All preparations [1-(5-Fluoropentyl)-1H- indol yl](2,2,3,3- - All preparations 

 74 Laws of Malaysia ACT 366 tetrametylcyclopropyl) methanone (XLR-11) Fluorouracil and other substances structurally derived from uracil - All preparations Fluoxetine; its salts - All preparations Fluralaner - All preparations Flutamide - All preparations Flutrimazole; its salts - All preparations unless in Group C Pessaries. Preparations for external use Fluvastatin; its salts - All preparations Fluvoxamine; its salts - All preparations Fondaparinux sodium - All preparations Formaldehyde - - - - 5% and over calculated as HCHO (1) Under 5% calculated as HCHO (2) Photographic glaz ing or hardening solution (3) Its analogues, homologues, compounds, intermediates, derivatives, esters, ethers, salts and other substances structurally derived Formestane - All preparations Formoterol All preparations for use in animal feeds - Preparations other than those in Group A Fosaprepitant - All preparations Foscarnet trisodium hexahydrate - All preparations Fosinopril; its salts - All preparations Fotemustine - All preparations Fractionated blood products (plasma proteins obtained through a chemical manufacturing process for use on patients) - All preparations Frusemide - All preparations Fulvestrant - All preparations Gabapentin - All preparations Gadolinium chelate - All preparations for diagnostic or therapeutic use - - - All preparations unless in Group B Galantamine - All preparations Gallamine; its salts; its quarternary compounds - All preparations Gamma Butyrolactone - - - - All preparations unless exempted (1) When used as foo d additive in food (2) Its analogues, homologues, compounds, 

 Poisons 75 intermediates, derivatives, esters, ethers, salts and other substances structurally derived Ganciclovir - All preparations Gangliosides; its salts - All preparations Ganirelix - All preparations Gefitinib - All preparations Gemcitabine; its salts - All preparations Gemfibrozil - All preparations Gestrinone - All preparations Gimeracil - All preparations Glaphenine - - All preparations Glecaprevir - All preparations Glibenclamide - - All preparations Glibornuride - - All preparations Gliclazide - - All preparations Glimepiride - - All preparations Glipizide - - All preparations Gliquidone; its salts - - All preparations Glucagon; its salts - All preparations Glucose unless specified elsewhere in the List - - All preparations for parenteral administration - - All preparations unless in Group C Glutathione - - All preparations for parenteral administration - - All preparations unless in Group C Glutethimide - All preparations Glyceryl trinitrate - - All preparations Glycopyrrolate - - All preparations Glymidine; its salts - - All preparations Granisetron; its salts - All preparations Grapiprant - All preparations Grazoprevir - All preparations Griseofulvin - - All preparations Guanethidine; its salts - All preparations Guanfacine; its salts - All preparations Haloperidol and other substances structurally derived from butyrophenones; their salts - All preparations Halothane - All preparations Halquinol All preparations unless in Group B Veterinary preparations Hemin; its esters - All preparations Hexacarbacholine bromide - All preparations Hexafluoronium bromide - All preparations Hexakis zinc - All preparations Hexamethonium; its salts - All preparations Hexapropymate - - All preparations 

 76 Laws of Malaysia ACT 366 Hexobendine; its salts - - All preparations Hydrallazine; its salts - All preparations Hydrazines, benzyl, phenethyl, phenoxyethyl; their alpha-methyl derivatives; acyl derivatives of any of the foregoing substances comprised in this item; salts of any compound comprised in this item, for therapeutic use - All medicinal preparations Hydrochloric acid; hydrogen chloride - - - - 9% and over calculate as HCI (1) Under 9% calculated as HCI (2) Its analogues, homologues compounds, intermediates, derivatives, esters, ethers, salts and other substances structurally derived Hydrogen bromide, hydrobromic acid - - - - All preparations (1) Preparations ready for use as pesticides (2) Its analogues, homologues compounds, intermediates, derivatives, esters, ethers, salts and other substances structurally derived Hydrogen cyanide; metal cyanides other than ferrocyanides and ferricyanides - - - All preparations unless exempted - Under 0.15% w/w hydrogen cyanide (HCN) or under 0.1% w/w of cyanides calculated as HCN (Registered Pesticides) Hydrofluoric acid; hydrogen fluoride - - - - All preparations unless exempted Its analogues, homologues compounds, intermediates, derivatives, esters, ethers, salts and other substances structurally derived Hydroquinone - - All medicinal preparations unless exempted - All preparations unless in group C or exempted (1) Artificial nail systems which is notified cosmetic under the Control of Drugs and Cosmetics Regulations 1984, containing hydroquinone not more than 0.02% w/w (2) Notified cosmetic under the Control of Drugs and Cosmetics Regulations 1984 containing arbutin 

 Poisons 77 (3) Its analogues, homologues compounds, intermediates, derivatives, esters, ethers, salts and other substances structurally derived Hydroxychloroquine; its salts - - All preparations Hydroxycinchoninic acid, derivatives of; their salts; their esters - - All preparations 8-[N-(2-hydroxyethyl)- methyl amino]-1,3,7 trimethylxanthine - - All preparations Hydroxyethylstarch - - All preparations for parenteral administration - - All preparations unless in Group C N-hydroxy MDA (DD) - All preparations 4-hydroxynitrophenylarsonic acid - - All preparations Hydroxyphenamate - - All preparations Hydroxyurea - All preparations Hydroxyzine; its salts - - All preparations Hypothalamic Hormones and their analogues - All preparations Ibandronic acid - All preparations Ibrutinib - All preparations Ibuprofen and other substances structurally derived from 2- phenylpropionic acid - - All preparations Idarubicin - All preparations Idarucizumab - All preparations Idelalisib - All preparations Idoxuridine - All preparations Idrocilamide - All preparations Iloprost - All preparations Imatinib - All preparations Imidafenacin - - All preparations Imidapril HCI - All preparations Imidocarb - All preparations Imiglucerase - All preparations Imipramine; its salts - All preparations Imiquimod All preparations unless in Group C Preparations for external use Inclisiran - All preparations Indacaterol - All preparations Indanazoline; its salts - - All preparations Indapamide - All preparations 

 78 Laws of Malaysia ACT 366 Indinavir; its salts - All preparations Indomethacin; its salts - All preparations Inositol nicotinate - - All preparations Insulin - - All preparations Interferons - All preparations Iobitridol - All preparations Iodine - - All preparations for parenteral administration. All medicinal preparations containing 2% and above of iodine All preparations unless in Group C or exempted - (1) Preparations containing less than 2% of iodine unless in Group C (2) Its analogues, homologues, compounds, intermediates, derivatives, esters, ethers, salts and other substances structurally derived 2-(4-iodo-2,5-dimethoxyphenyl)- N-(2-methoxybenzyl)ethanamine (251-NBOMe) (DD) - All preparations Iomeprol - All preparations Iopamidol - All preparations Ipratropium; its salts - - All preparations Iprindole; its salts - All preparations Iproclozide - All preparations Ipronidazole All preparations Irbesartan - All preparations Irinotecan; its salts - All preparations Isavuconazole - All preparations Isoaminile; its salts - All preparations Isocarboxazid - All preparations Isoconazole; its salts - All preparations unless in Group C Pessaries. Preparations for external use Isoflurane - All preparations Isoniazid; its salts - - All medicinal preparations All preparations unless in Group C Isopropamide; its salts - - All preparations Isosafrole - - - - All preparations unless exempted Preparations containing isosafrole as flavouring agents and perfumes Isosorbide dinitrate - - All preparations Isosorbide mononitrate - - All preparations Isoxicam - - All preparations Isotretinoin - All preparations Isradipine - All preparations Itopride; its salts - All preparations 

 Poisons 79 Itraconazole - All preparations unless in Group C Pessaries. Preparations for external use Ivabradine - All preparations Ivermectin - All preparations Ixazomib - All preparations Ketanserin - All preparations Ketoconazole - All preparations unless in Group C Pessaries.Preparations for external use Ketorolac Tromethamine - All preparations Ketotifen - - All preparations Labetalol; its salts - All preparations Labuvirtide - All preparations Lamivudine - All preparations Lamotrigine - All preparations Lacidipine - All preparations Lacosamide - All preparations Lanreotide; its salts - All preparations Lansoprazole - All preparations Lanthanum carbonate - All preparations Lapatinib Ditosylate - All preparations Latanoprost - All preparations Laudexium; its salts - All preparations Lead acetate; compounds of lead with acids from fixed oils - - - All preparations unless exempted - Preparations containing less than 4% of lead acetate. Machine spread plaster. Medicinal preparations of herbal origin containing 10ppm or less of lead Lead tetraethyl - - Strengths over 1 in 750 - Strengths of 1 in 750 or less Ledipasvir - All preparations Lefetamine - All preparations Leflunomide; its salts - All preparations Lemborexant - All preparations Lenograstim - All preparations Lenvatinib - All preparations Leptazol - - All preparations Lercanidipine - All preparations Letermovir - All preparations Letrozole - All preparations Leuprolide; its salts - All preparations Levallorphan; its salts - All preparations Levamisole; its salts - All preparations Levetiracetam - All preparations Levodopa - All preparations Levodropropizine; its salts - - All preparations Levobunolol; its salts - All preparations Levocabastine; its salts - - All preparations Levosimendan - All preparations Lidoflazine - All preparations 

 80 Laws of Malaysia ACT 366 Linagliptin - All preparations Liraglutide - All preparations Lisdexamfetamine - All preparations Lisinopril - All preparations Lithium salts for therapeutic use - All preparations unless exempted - - - Preparations containing 0.01% or less of lithium Lixisenatide - All preparations Local anaesthetics; the following: their salts; their homologues and analogues; their molecular compounds: Amino-alcohols esterified with benzoic acid, phenylacetic acid, phenylpropionic acid, cinnamic acid or the derivatives of these acids; their salts Benzocaine Bupivacaine Butyl aminobenzoate Cinchocaine Diperodon Etidocaine Lignocaine Levobupivacaine Mepivacaine Orthocaine Oxethazaine Phenacaine Phenodianisyl Prilocaine Ropivacaine Tetracaine All preparations containing local anaesthetics unless in Group B, Group C or Group D All preparations in pharmaceutical dosage forms unless in Group C (1) All preparations in pharmaceutical dosage form for topical use in the nose, eyes and ears or external use (2) Suppositories, lozenges and pastilles (3) Preparations in the form of cartridges for dental use containing 2% or less of local anaesthetic Preparations for laboratory use - Denatonium benzoate Benzocaine All condoms, appliances or preparations containing localanaesthetics unless Group B or Group C All preparations in pharmaceutical dosage forms unless Group All preparations in pharmaceutical dosage form for local anaesthetics, topical use in the nose, eyes and ears, suppository or external use. Lozenges and pastilles unless Group A or Group C Bupivacaine All condoms, appliances or preparations containing local anaesthetics unless Group B or Group C All preparations in pharmaceutical dosage forms unless Group A or Group C All preparations in pharmaceutical dosage form for local anaesthetics, topical use in the nose, eyes and ears, suppository or external use. Lozenges and pastilles 

 Poisons 81 unless Group A or Group C Butyl aminobenzoate All condoms, appliances or preparations containing localanaesthetics unless Group B or Group C All preparations in pharmaceutical dosage forms unless Group A or Group C All preparations in pharmaceutical dosage form for local anaesthetics, topical use in the nose, eyes and ears, suppository or external use. Lozenges and pastilles unless Group A or Group C Cinchocaine All condoms, appliances or preparations containing local anaesthetics unless Group B or Group C All preparations in pharmaceutical dosage forms unless Group A or Group C All preparations in pharmaceutical dosage form for local anaesthetics, topical use in the nose, eyes and ears, suppository or external use. Lozenges and pastilles unless Group A or Group C Diperodon All condoms, appliances or preparations containing local anaesthetics unless Group B or Group C All preparations in pharmaceutical dosage forms unless Group A or Group C All preparations in pharmaceutical dosage form for local anaesthetics, topical use in the nose, eyes and ears, suppository or external use. Lozenges and pastilles unless Group A or Group C Etidocaine All condoms, appliances or preparations containing local anaesthetics unless Group B or Group C All preparations in pharmaceutical dosage forms unless Group A or Group C All preparations in pharmaceutical dosage form for local anaesthetics, topical use in the nose, eyes and ears, suppository or external use. Lozenges and pastilles unless Group A or Group C Lignocaine All condoms, appliances or preparations containing local anaesthetics unless Group B or Group C All preparations in pharmaceutical dosage forms unless Group A or Group C All preparations in pharmaceutical dosage form for local anaesthetics, topical use in the nose, eyes and ears, suppository or external use. Lozenges and pastilles unless Group A or Group C 

 82 Laws of Malaysia ACT 366 Levobupivacaine All condoms, appliances or preparations containing local anaesthetics unless Group B or Group C All preparations in pharmaceutical dosage forms unless Group A or Group C All preparations in pharmaceutical dosage form for local anaesthetics, topical use in the nose, eyes and ears, suppository or external use. Lozenges and pastilles unless Group A or Group C Mepivacaine All condoms, appliances or preparations containing local anaesthetics unless Group B or Group C All preparations in pharmaceutical dosage forms unless Group A or Group C All preparations in pharmaceutical dosage form for local anaesthetics, topical use in the nose, eyes and ears, suppository or external use. Lozenges and pastilles unless Group A or Group C Orthocaine All condoms, appliances or preparations containing local anaesthetics unless Group B or Group C All preparations in pharmaceutical dosage forms unless Group A or Group C All preparations in pharmaceutical dosage form for local anaesthetics, topical use in the nose, eyes and ears, suppository or external use. Lozenges and pastilles unless Group A or Group C Oxethazaine All condoms, appliances or preparations containing local anaesthetics unless Group B or Group C All preparations in pharmaceutical dosage forms unless Group A or Group C All preparations in pharmaceutical dosage form for local anaesthetics, topical use in the nose, eyes and ears, suppository or external use. Lozenges and pastilles unless Group A or Group C Phenacaine All condoms, appliances or preparations containing local anaesthetics unless Group B or Group C All preparations in pharmaceutical dosage forms unless Group A or Group C All preparations in pharmaceutical dosage form for local anaesthetics, topical use in the nose, eyes and ears, suppository or external use. Lozenges and pastilles unless Group A or Group C Phenodianisyl All condoms, appliances or All preparations in pharmaceutical dosage All preparations in pharmaceutical dosage 

 Poisons 83 preparations containing local anaesthetics unless Group B or Group C forms unless Group A or Group C form for local anaesthetics, topical use in the nose, eyes and ears, suppository or external use. Lozenges and pastilles unless Group A or Group C Prilocaine All condoms, appliances or preparations containing local anaesthetics unless Group B or Group C All preparations in pharmaceutical dosage forms unless Group A or Group C All preparations in pharmaceutical dosage form for local anaesthetics, topical use in the nose, eyes and ears, suppository or external use. Lozenges and pastilles unless Group A or Group C Ropivacaine All condoms, appliances or preparations containing local anaesthetics unless Group B or Group C All preparations in pharmaceutical dosage forms unless Group A or Group C All preparations in pharmaceutical dosage form for local anaesthetics, topical use in the nose, eyes and ears, suppository or external use. Lozenges and pastilles unless Group A or Group C Tetracaine All condoms, appliances or preparations containing local anaesthetics unless Group B or Group C All preparations in pharmaceutical dosage forms unless Group A or Group C All preparations in pharmaceutical dosage form for local anaesthetics, topical use in the nose, eyes and ears, suppository or external use. Lozenges and pastilles unless Group A or Group B Lofepramine - All preparations Lodoxamide Tromethamine - - All preparations Lomustine; its salts - All preparations Lonazolac; its salts - - All preparations Lonoctocog alfa - All preparations Loperamide; its salts - All preparations Lopinavir - All preparations Lorlatinib - All preparations Losartan; its salts - All preparations Lovastatin - All preparations Lubisprostone - All preparations Lumefantrine - All preparations Lumiracoxib - All preparations Lung Phospholipid - All preparations 

 84 Laws of Malaysia ACT 366 Lurasidone - All preparations Lutropin alfa (Recombinant human luteinising hormone) - All preparations Luseogliflozin - All preparations Luspatercept - All preparations LSD or LSD -25 or (+) -N N - diethyllysergamide or d -lysergic acid diethylamide; its derivatives (DD) - All preparations Lysergic acid; its salts - - - - All preparations Lysuride; its salts - All preparations Macitentan - All preparations Maduramycin - All preparations Mannitol - Product for diagnostic use which is registered under the Control of Drugs and Cosmetics Regulations 1984 All preparations for parenteral administration unless in Group B - - All preparations unless in Group B and Group C Mannityl hexanitrate - - All preparations Mannomustine; its salts - All preparations Maprotiline; its salts - All preparations Maraviroc - All preparations Mazindol - All preparations Mebeverine; its salts - - All preparations Mebezonium iodide - - All preparations Mebutamate - - All preparations Meclofenoxate; its salts - All preparations unless exempted - - - Preparations for horticultural use Mecloqualone - All preparations Mefenamic acid; its salts; its esters; their salts - - All preparations Mefenorex - All preparations Mefloquine; its salts - All preparations Megestrol Acetate - All preparations Meglumine; its salts - All preparations Melagatran; its salts - All preparations Melarsomine - All preparations Melatonin - - All preparations Meloxicam - - All preparations Memantine - All preparations Mephedrone - All preparations Mephenesin; its esters - All preparations Meprobamate - All preparations Meptazinol; its salts - All preparations 2-Mercaptoethane Sulfonate Sodium (MESNA) - All preparations Mercaptopurine and other substances structurally derived therefrom; their salts - All preparations 

 Poisons 85 Mercury - - - All preparations unless exempted - (1) Cosmetic which is notified under the Control of Drugs and Cosmetics Regulations 1984 containing not more than 1 part per million of mercury calculated as the metal (2) Product which is registered under the Control of Drugs and Cosmetic Regulations 1984 containing not more than 0.5 part per million of mercury calculated as the metal (3) Appliances containing mercury Mesalazine - All preparations Mescaline or 3,4,5- trimethoxy- phenethylamine; its salts (DD) - All preparations unless exempted - - Living plants Mesocarb - All preparations Metahexamide - - All preparations Metaxalone - All preparations Metergoline - All preparations Metformin - - All preparations Methacholine; its salts - All preparations Methamphetamine; its salts (DD) - All preparations Methantheline; its salts - - All preparations Methaqualone - All preparations Methcathinone; its salts (DD) - All preparations Methimazole; its salts - All preparations Methiopropamine (MPA) - All preparations Methisazone - All preparations Methisoprinol - - All preparations Methixene; its salts - All preparations Methocarbamol - All preparations Methotrexate; its salts - All preparations Methoxetamine (MXE) - All preparations Methoxsalen - All preparations 10-Methoxydeserpidine - All preparations 5-Methoxy-N,N- diisopropyltryptamine - All preparations 5-Methoxy-3, 4- methylenedioxyamphetamine (MMDA) (DD) - All preparations 

 86 Laws of Malaysia ACT 366 5-Methoxy-N,N- methylisopropyltryptamine - All preparations 3-Methoxyphencyclidine (3-MeO-PCP) - All preparations 2-(2-Methoxyphenyl)(1- pentylindolyl)ethanone(JWH- 250) - All preparations Methyl alpha-phenylacetoacetate (MAPA) - - - - All preparations 4-Methyl-alpha- pyrrolidinobutiophenone - All preparations 3, 4-Methylenedioxy phenylpropane - - - - All preparations 4-Methylaminorex(DD) - All preparations Methyl bromide - - - All preparations Registered pesticides 4-Methylbuphedrone - All preparations Methyl 3, 3-dimethyl(1- (pentenyl)-1H-indazolecarboxamido)butanoate (MDMB-4en-PINACA) (DD) - All preparations Methyldopa - All preparations Methylenedioxy- amphetamine (MDA)(DD) - All preparations 3,4- Methylenedioxymethamphetamin e (MDMA)(DD) - All preparations 3,4-Methylenedioxypyroval erone (MDPV) - All preparations - - N-Methylephedrine camsylate - All preparations 4-Methylethcathinone (4-MEC) - All preparations Methyl (2S){[1 - (5-fluoropentyl)-1H-indazolecarbonyl]amino}- 3,3- dimethylbutanoate (5F-ADB/ 5F-MDMB-PINACA) (DD) - All preparations Methyl 2-({[1-(5-fluoropentyl)- 1H-indazolyl] carbonyl}amino) methylbutanoate (5F-AMB) - All preparations 

 Poisons 87 Methyl (2S){[1-(5- fluoropentyl)-1H-indole carbonyl]amino}-3,3- dimethylbutanoate (5F-MDMB-PICA) - All preparations Methyl (2S)({1-[(4- fluorophenyl)methyl]-1H- indazolecarbonyl}amino) methylbutanoate (FUB-AMB) (DD) - All preparations 3,4-MDPP Methyl glycidate (PMK glycidate) - - - - All preparations 3,4-MDPP Methyl glycidic acid (PMK glycidic acid) - - - - All preparations 3-Methylmethcathinone (3-MMC) - All preparations N-methyl(3, 4 methylenediox phenyl)butanamine (DD) - All preparations Methylpentynol; its esters and other derivatives; their salts - - All preparations Methylphenidate - Methylone - All preparations Methyprylone - All preparations Methylthioninium chloride - All preparations for parenteral administration - - - All prepa rations unless in Group B Metipranolol - All preparations Metoclopramide; its salts - All preparations Metolazone - All preparations Metoprolol; its salts - All preparations Metronidazole Veterinary preparations for food-producing animals All preparations unless in Group A Metyrapone; its salts - All preparations Mexiletine; its salts - All preparations Mianserin; its salts - All preparations Micafungin sodium - All preparations Miconazole; its salts - All preparations unless in Group C Pessaries. Preparations for external use Midostaurin - All preparations Miglitol - - All preparations Milnacipran - All preparations Milrinone - All preparations - Miltefosine - All preparations 

 88 Laws of Malaysia ACT 366 Minerals; the following, unless specified elsewhere in the List: Chromium Copper Fluorine Iron Manganese Selenium Zinc - - All preparations for parenteral administration - - All preparations unless in Group C Minoxidil; its salts; its derivatives - All preparations Preparations for external use containing not more than 5% of Minoxidil; its salts; its derivatives Mipomersen sodium - All preparations Mirabegron - All preparations Mirtazapine - - All preparations Mitiglinide - All preparations Minerals; the Following, unless Specified elsewhere in the List: Chromium Copper Fluorine Iron Manganese Selenium Zinc - - All preparations for parenteral administration - - All preparations unless in Group Minoxidil; its salts; its derivatives - All preparations unless in Group C Preparations for external use containing not more than 5% of Minoxidil; its salts; its derivative Mipomersen sodium - All preparations Mirtazapine - All preparations Mitiglinide - All preparations Mitopodozide; its salts - All preparations Mitoxantrone; its salts - All preparations Mivacurium; its salts - All preparations Moclobemide - All preparations Modafinil - All preparations Mofebutazone - All preparations Molnupiravir - All preparations Molsidomin - - All preparations Monensin - All preparations Monoclonal antibody; includes the following: Abciximab Adalimumab Alemtuzumab - All preparations 

 Poisons 89 Alirocumab Amivantamab Atezolizumab Basiliximab Belimumab Benralizumab Bevacizumab Blinatumomab Brentuximab Brodalumab Brolucizumab Burosumab Canakinumab Casirivimab Certolizumab Cetuximab Cilgavimab Dacliximab Daratumumab Denosumab Efalizumab Emicizumab Erenumab Evolocumab Faricimab Galcanezumab Golimumab Guselkumab Idarucizumab Imdevimab Infliximab Ixekizumab Mepolizumab Natalizumab Necitumumab Nivolumab Obinutuzumab Ofatumumab Omalizumab Palivizumab Panitumumab Pembrolizumab Pertuzumab Polatuzumab vedotin Ramucirumab Ranibizumab Regdanvimab Risankizumab Rituximab Romosozumab Sarilumab Satralizumab Secukinumab 

 90 Laws of Malaysia ACT 366 Siltuximab Sotrovimab Tixagevimab Tocilizumab Trastuzumab Ustekinumab Vedolizumab Montelukast - - All preparations Morantel Tartrate - All preparations Moroxydine; its salts - All preparations Moxonidine - All preparations Mosapride - All preparations Moxidectin - All preparations Moxonidine - All preparations Mustine and other substances structurally derived therefrom; their salts - All preparations Mycophenolic acid - All preparations Nabumetone - All preparations Nadolol - All preparations Naftidrofuryl acid oxalate - All preparations Nalbuphine - All preparations Nalidixic acid and other substances, structurally derived therefrom; its salts - All preparations Nalorphine; its salts - All preparations Naloxone; its salts - All preparations Naltrexone; its salts - All preparations Naphazoline; its salts - - All preparations Naphthalenyl-(1-pentyl-1H- indolyl)methanone(JWH-018) - All preparations Naproxen; its salts - - All preparations Naratriplan; its salts - All preparations Narcotic substances; the following: - All preparations (DD) Acetorphine - All preparations (DD) Acetyl-alpha-methyl- fentanyl - All preparations (DD) Acetyldihy- drocodeine - - All products registered under the Control of Drugs and Cosmetics Regulations 1984 (DD) Acetylfentanyl - All preparations (DD) Acetylmethadol - All preparations (DD) Acryloylfentanyl - All preparations (DD) Alfentanil - All products registered under the Control of Drugs and Cosmetics Regulations 1984 - - - - (DD) Allylprodine - All preparations 

 Poisons 91 (DD) Alphacetylmethadol - All preparations (DD) Alphameprodine - All preparations (DD) Alphamethadol - All preparations (DD) Alpha- methylfentanyl - All preparations (DD) Alpha- methylthiofentanyl - All preparations (DD) Alphaprodine - All preparations (DD) Anileridine - All preparations (DD) Benzethidine - All preparations (DD) Benzylmorphine - All preparations (DD) Beta-hydroxyfentanyl - All preparations (DD) Beta-hydroxy-3 methylfentany - All preparations (DD) Betacetylmethadol - All preparations (DD) Betameprodine - All preparations (DD) Betamethadol - All preparations (DD) Betamethadol - All preparations (DD) Betaprodine - All preparations (DD) Bezitramide - All preparations (DD) 4-bromo-2,5- dimethoxyphenylethylamine (2C-B) All preparations (DD) Brorphine - All preparations (DD) Butyrfentanyl - All preparations (DD) Cannabis, its resin, extracts and tinctures of; cannabin tannate - All preparation except in corn paints When contained in corn paints for external use only (DD) Carfentanil - All preparations (DD) Clonitazene - All preparations (DD) Coca,alkaloids of - Strengths of 0.1% and over calculated as cocaine Strengths under 0.1% calculated as cocaine (DD) Cocaine - - All products registered under the Control of Drugs and Cosmetics Regulations 1984 (DD) Codeine - - All products registered under the Control of Drugs and Cosmetics Regulations 1984 (DD) Codoxime - All preparations (DD) Crotonylfentanyl - All preparations (DD) 1-Cyclohexyl(1,2- diphenylethyl)piperazine (MT- 45) - All preparations (DD) Cyclopropylfentanyl - All preparations (DD) Desomorphine - All preparations (DD) Dextromoramide - All preparations (DD) Dextro- propoxyphene - - All products registered under the Control of Drugs and Cosmetics 

 92 Laws of Malaysia ACT 366 Regulations 1984 (DD) Diampromide - All preparations (DD) 3,4-Dichloro-N-[(1- dimethylamino) cyclohexylmethyl]benzamide [AH-7921] - All preparations (DD) 3,4-Dichloro-N-[(2- dimethylamino) cyclohexy]-N- methylbenzamide [U-47700] - All preparations (DD) Diethylthiambutene - All preparations (DD) Difenoxin - - All products registered under the Control of Drugs and Cosmetics Regulations 1984 (DD) Dihydro -codeine - All products registered under the Control of Drugs and Cosmetics Regulations 1984 (DD) Dihydroetorphine - All preparations (DD) Dihydromorphine - All preparations (DD) Dimenoxadol - All preparations (DD) Dimepheptanol - All preparations (DD) Dimethylthiambutene - All preparations (DD) Dioxaphetylbutyrate - All preparations (DD) Diphenoxylate - - All products registered under the Control of Drugs and Cosmetics Regulations 1984 (DD) Dipipanone - All preparations (DD) Drotebanol - All preparations (DD) Ecgonine Strengths of the quivalent of 1% or more of Ecgonine Strengths less than the equivalent of 1% of Ecgonine (DD) Ethylmethyl-thiambutene - All preparation (DD) Ethylmorphine - - All products registered under the Control of Drugs and Cosmetics Regulations 1984 (DD) Etonitazene - All preparations (DD) Etorphine - All preparations (DD) Etoxeridine - All preparations (DD) Fentanyl - All products registered under the Control of Drugs and Cosmetics Regulations 1984 - - - - (DD) 4-Fluoroisubutyrfentanyl (4-FIBF,pFIBF) - All preparations (DD) Furanyl fentanyl - All preparations 

 Poisons 93 (DD) Furethidine - All preparations (DD) Gamma hydroxybutyric Acid (GHB) All preparations (DD) Heroin or diacetyl Morphine - - All preparations (DD) Hydrocodone - All preparations (DD) Hydromorphinol - All preparations (DD) Hydromorphone - All preparations (DD) Hydroxypethidine - All preparations (DD) Isomethadone - All preparations (DD) Isotonitazene - All preparations (DD) Ketamine - All products registered under the Control of Drugs and Cosmetics Regulations 1984 - - - - (DD) Ketobemidone - All preparations (DD) Levomethorphan - All preparations (DD) Levomoramide - All preparations (DD) Levophenacylmorphan - All preparations (DD) Levorphanol - All preparations (DD) Metazocine - All preparations (DD) Methadone - All products registered under the Control of Drugs and Cosmetics Regulations 1984 - - - - (DD) Methadone-Intermediate - All preparations (DD) Methoxyacetylfentanyl - All preparations (DD) Methyldesorphine - All preparations (DD) Methyldihydromorphine - All preparations (DD) 3-Methylfentanyl - All preparations (DD) 4-Methylthioampheta- mine (4-MTA) All preparations All preparations (DD) 3-Methylthiofentanyl - All preparations (DD) 1-Methylphenyl-4 piperidinol propionate (MPPP) - (DD) Metonitazene - All preparations (DD) Metopon - All preparations (DD) Moramide-Intermediate - All preparations (DD) Morpheridine - All preparations (DD) Morphine - All products registered under the Control of Drugs and Cosmetics Regulations 1984 - - - - (DD) Morphine methobromide and other pentavalent nitrogen morphine derivatives, including in particular the - All preparations 

 94 Laws of Malaysia ACT 366 morphine- N-oxide derivatives, one of which is Codeine- Noxide (DD) Morphine-N-oxide - All preparations (DD) Myrophine - All preparations (DD) Nicocodine - - All products registered under the Control of Drugs and Cosmetics Regulations 1984 (DD) Nicodicodine - - All products registered under the Control of Drugs and Cosmetics Regulations 1984 (DD) Nicomorphine - All preparations (DD) Noracymethadol - All preparations (DD) Norcodeine - - All products registered under the Control of Drugs and Cosmetics Regulations 1984 (DD) Norlevor-phanol - All preparations (DD) Norme-thadone - All preparations (DD) Normorphine - All preparations (DD) Norpipanone - All preparations (DD) Ocfentanil - All preparations (DD) Opium - All products registered under the Control of Drugs and Cosmetics Regulations 1984 (DD) Orthofluorofentanyl - All preparations (DD) Oxycodone - All products registered under the Control of Drugs and Cosmetics Regulations 1984 - - - - (DD) Oxymorphone - All preparations (DD) Parafluorobutyrylfentanyl - All preparations (DD) Para-flurofentanyl - All preparations (DD) Pethidine - All products registered under the Control of Drugs and Cosmetics Regulations 1984 - - - - (DD) Pethidine-Intermediate A - All preparations (DD) Pethidine-Intermediate B - All preparations (DD) Pethidine-Intermediate C - All preparations (DD) Phenadoxone - All preparations (DD) Phenampromide - All preparations (DD) Phenazocine - All preparations (DD) 1-Phenethylphenyl piperidinol acetate(PEPAP) - All preparations (DD) Phenomorphan - All preparations 

 Poisons 95 (DD) Phenoperidine - All preparations (DD) Pholcodine - - All products registered under the Control of Drugs and Cosmetics Regulations 1984 (DD) Piminodine - All preparations (DD) Piritramide - All preparations (DD) Proheptazine - All preparations (DD) Properidine - All preparations (DD) Propiram - - All products registered under the Control of Drugs and Cosmetics Regulations 1984 (DD) Racemethorphan - All preparations (DD) Racemoramide - All preparations (DD) Racemorphan - All preparations (DD) Remifentanil - All products registered under the Control of Drugs and Cosmetics Regulations 1984 (DD) Sufentanil - All products registered under the Control of Drugs and Cosmetics Regulations 1984 - - - - (DD) Tetrahydrofuranyl fentanyl (THF-F) - All preparations (DD) Thebacon - All preparations (DD) Thebaine - All preparations (DD) Thiofentanyl - All preparations (DD) Tilidine - All preparations (DD) Trimeperidine - All preparations (DD) Valerylfentanyl - All preparations (DD) Racemorphan - All preparations (DD) Remifentanil - All preparations (DD) Trimeperidine - All preparations (DD) Sufentanil - All preparations (DD) Thebacon - All preparations (DD) Thebaine - All preparations (DD) Thiofentanyl - All preparations (DD) Tilidine - All preparations Natamycin - - All preparations unless exempted - - Natamycin when use as food additive Nateglinide - - All preparations Nebivolol - All preparations Nedocromil sodium - - All preparations Nefazodone; its salts - All preparations Nefopam; its salts - All preparations Nelfinavir; its salts - All preparations Neostigmine; its Salts - All preparations Nepafenac - - All preparations Neratinib - All preparations 

 96 Laws of Malaysia ACT 366 Netupitant - All preparations Nevirapine; its Salts - All preparations Nialamide - All preparations Nicarbazin - All preparations Nicardipine; its Salt - All preparations Nicotinic acid - Sustained release preparations All preparations for parenteral administration other than in Group B - - All preparations unless in Group B and Group C Nicergoline; its Salts - All preparations Niclosamide - All preparations Nifedipine - All preparations Niflumic acid - All preparations Nifuroxazide - - All preparations Nikethamide - - All preparations Nilotinib - All preparations Nilvadipine - All preparations Nimetazepam (DD) - - Nimodipine - Allpreparations Nimorazole - All preparations unless in Group C Pessaries. Preparations for external use Nintedanib - All preparations Nirmatrelvir - All preparations Nisoldipine - All preparations Nitric acid - - - - 9% w/w and over (1) Under 9% w/w (2) Its analogues, homologues, compounds, intermediates, derivatives, esters, ethers, salts and other substances structurally derived Nitric Oxide - Preparations in the form of medicinal gas for therapeutic use - - - (1) All prepara tions unless in Group B (2) Its analogues, homologues, compounds, intermediates, derivatives, esters, ethers, salts and other substances structurally derived Nitrendipine - All preparations Nitrobenzene - - - All preparations containing 0.1% and over unless exempted - (1) Under 0.1% (2) Under 1% in soap (3) Under 5% in polishes (4) Its analogues, homologues, compounds, 

 Poisons 97 intermediates, derivatives, esters, ethers, salts and other substances structurally derived Nitrofurans All preparations including preparations for use in animal feed All preparations in pharmaceutical dosage form unless in Groups A and Group C Suppositories and preparation for topical use in the nose, eyes and ears. Lozenges and preparations for external use only Nitrophenols, ortho, meta and para - - - All preparations unless exempted - Its analogues, homologues, compounds, intermediates, derivatives, esters, ethers, salts and other substances structurally derived Nizatidine - - All preparations Nomifensine; its salts - All preparations Norephedrine All preparations Norfentanyl - - - All preparations Nortriptyline; its salts - All preparations Nusinersen - All preparations Nystatin - - All preparations Oclacitinib - All preparations Ocriplasmin - All preparations Octamylamine - - All preparations Octreotide; its salts - All preparations Olanzapine - All preparations Olaparib - All preparations Olaquindox All preparatons Olmesartan medoxomil - All preparations Olodaterol - All preparations Ombitasvir - All preparations Omeprazole - All preparations Omidenepag - All preparations Ondansetron; its salts - All preparations Oprelvekin - All preparations Orlistat - - All preparations Omidazole - All preparations unless in Group C Pessaries. Preparations for external use Orphenadrine; its salts - All preparations Orthopterin - All preparations Oseltamivir - All preparations Osimertinib - All preparations Oteracil potassium - All preparations Ouabain - All preparations Oxalic acid; metallic oxalates - - - All preparations unless exempted - (1) Laundry blue, polishes, cleaning powders or scouring products, 

 98 Laws of Malaysia ACT 366 containing the equivalent of not more than 10% of oxalic acid dihydrate (2) Ink eradicators containing not more than 5% of oxalic acid (3) Its analogues, homologues, compounds, intermediates, derivatives, esters, ethers, salts and other substances structurally derived Oxaliplatin - All preparations Oxcarbazepine - All preparations Oxiconazole; its salts - All preparations unless in Group C Preparations for external use Oxprenolol; its salts - All preparations Oxybutinin; its salts - - All preparations Oxyclozanide - All preparations Oxymetazoline; its salts - - All preparations Oxyphenbutazone All preparations Oxyphencyclimine; its salts - - All preparations Oxyphenonium; its salts - - All preparations Oxytocins - All preparations Paliperidone - All preparations Palonosetron - All preparations Pamidronate Disodium - All preparations Paclitaxel - All preparations Palbociclib - All preparations Pancuronium bromide - All preparations Panobinostat - All preparations Pantoprazole; its salts - All preparations Paracetamol - - All preparations for parenteral administration - - All preparations unless in Group C Parahexyl (DD) - All preparations Paraldehyde - - All preparations Paramethadione - All preparations Paramethoxyamphet- amine (PMA) (DD) - All preparations Para- methoxymethylamphetamine (PMMA) (DD) - All preparations Para-methyl methylaminorex(4,4’-DMAR) - All preparations Parecoxib sodium - All preparations 

 Poisons 99 Pargyline; its salts - All preparations Paricalcitol - All preparations Paritaprevir - All preparations Paroxetine - All preparations Pazopanib - All preparations Pecazine; its salts All preparations Pegabtanib Sodium - All preparations Pegaspargase - All preparations Pegfilgrastim - All preparations Pegvisomant - All preparations Pemafibrate - All preparations Pemetrexed - All preparations Pemoline - All preparations Pempidine; its salts - All preparations Penciclovir - All preparations unless in Group C Preparations for topical use Penicillamine; its salts - All preparations Pentosan - All preparations Pentaerythritol tetranitrate - - All preparations Pentamidine; its salts - All preparations Pentazocine - All preparations Pentedrone (α- methylaminovalerophenone) - All preparations Pentosian - All preparations Pentoxifylline - All preparations (1-Pentyl-1H-indolyl) (2,2,3,3- tetramethylcyclopropyl)methanon e (UR-144) (DD) - All preparations 5-Pentyl(2-phenylpropanyl)-2,5-dihydro-1H-pyrido [4,3-b]indolone (CUMYL-PEGACLONE) (DD) - All preparations Perampanel - All preparations Pergolide Mesylate - All preparations Perindopril - All preparations Phenacemide - All preparations Phenacetin All preparations unless exempted - - - - Hydrogen Peroxide solution or preparations containing hydrogen peroxide solution incorporated with not more than 0.1% w/w of phemacetin as stabilizer for the hydrogen peroxide solution calculated with reference to that hydrogen peroxide solution Phenaglycodol - All preparations Phenazone All preparations Phenazopyridine;its salts - All preparations Phenbutrazate; its salts - All preparations Phencyclidine - All preparations Phendimetrazine - All preparations 

 100 Laws of Malaysia ACT 366 Phenelzine; its salts - All preparations Phenethylamine unless specified elsewhere in the List All preparations for use in animal feeds - Preparations other than those in Group A N-Phenethyl piperidinone (NPP) - - - - All preparations Phenformin - - All preparations Phenmetrazine - All preparations Phenolphthalein - - All preparations for therapeutic use - All preparations unless in Group C or exempted Its analogues, homologues, compounds, intermediates, derivatives, esters, ethers, salts and other substances structurally derived Phenols (any member of the series of phenols of which the first member is phenol and of which the molecular composition varies from member to member by one atom of carbon and two atoms of hydrogen); compounds of phenol with a metal All preparations for diagnostic or therapeutic use unless exempted All preparations other than those in Part 1 or exempted (1) Paratertiary amyl phenol; tertiary butyl cresol; thymol; carvacrol; soap; tar (coal or wood); essential oils; essential oils in which phenols occur naturally (2) Strengths under 2.5% w/w of phenols (3) 5% w/w of phenols or under in surgical dressings for human or animal use (4) Its analogues, homologues, compounds (other than compounds of phenol with a metal), intermediates, derivatives, esters, ethers, salts and other substances structurally derived Phenothiazine and other substances structurally derived from it; their salts; except Chlorpromazine, Dimethoxanate; its salts and Promethazine; its salts and molecular compounds - All preparations for therapeutic use unless in Part II or exempted - - All preparations other than in Group B or exempted Phenothiazine powder for veterinary use only Phenprobamate - All preparations Phentermine - All preparations Phentolamine; its salts - All preparations Phenylbutazone; its salts - All preparations Phenylene-1, 4- diisothiocyanate - All preparations N-Phenylpiperidinamine (4-AP) - - - All preparations 1-Phenylpropanone - - - - All preparations 

 Poisons 101 Phenytoin and other substances structurally derived from hydantoin; their salts - All preparations unless exempted - - - Cosmetic which is notified under the Control of Drugs and Cosmetics Regulations 1984 containing derivatives of hydantoin Phosphorus white, yellow, red or black - - - - All preparations unless exempted (1) Phosporus in food, notified cosmetic or registered product under the Control of Drugs and Cosmetics Regulations 1984 (2) Its analogues, homologues, compounds, intermediates, derivatives, esters, ethers, salts and other substances structurally derived Pibrentasvir - All preparations Picric acid - - - All preparations unless exempted - Its analogues, homologues, compounds, intermediates, derivatives, esters, ethers, salts and other substances structurally derived Picrotoxin - - All preparations Pimecrolimus - - All preparations Pimobendan - All preparations Pimozide - All preparations Pinaverium - All preparations Pindolol; its salts - All preparations Pioglitazone - All preparations Pipazethate; its salts - - All preparations Pipemidic acid; its salts - All preparations Pirpradrol - All preparations Piperazine unless stated elsewhere in the List - - - - All preparations unless exempted (1) Cosmetic which is notified under the Control of Drugs and Cosmetics Regulations 1984 (2) Product which is registered under the Control of Drugs and Cosmetics Regulations 1984 (3) Its analogues, homologues, compounds, intermediates, 

 102 Laws of Malaysia ACT 366 derivatives, esters, ethers, salts and other substances structurally derived Piperidine unless specified elsewhere in the List - - - - All preparations Piperonal - - - - All preparations Pirbuterol All preparation for use in animal feeds - Preparations other than those in Group A Pirenzepine; its salts - - All preparations Pirfenoxone; its salts - All preparations Pifenidone - All preparations Piribedil - All preparations Piroxicam - - All preparations Pitavasatin calcium - All preparations Pitofenone; its salts - - All preparations Pituitary gland, the active principles of, other than conticotrophins, oxytocins and vasopressins - - All preparations Pizotifen; its salts - - All preparations Plerixafor - All preparations Polidocanol - All preparations for parenteral administration - - - All preparations unless in Group B Polymethylene bis trimethylammonium salts - All preparations Pomalidomide - All preparations Ponatinib - All preparations Posaconazole - All preparations Potassium hydroxide - - - - 12% and over unless exempted (1) Under 12% (2) Accumulators, batteries or when use as food additive in food (3) Its analogues, homologues, compounds, intermediates, derivatives, esters, ethers, salts and other substances structurally derived Potassium- permanganate - - - - All preparations Preparation containing 0.1% and kess if potassium permanganate Practolol; its salts - All preparations Pralatrexate - All preparations Pralidoxime - - All preparations for parenteral adminstration - - All preparations unless in Group C 

 Poisons 103 Pramipexole; its salts - All preparations Prasugrel - All preparations Pravastatin - All preparations Prazosin; its salts - All preparations Pregabalin - All preparations Prenylamine; its salts - All preparations Prifinium - Preparations for animal treatment All preparations unless in Group B Primaquine; its salts - All preparations Primidone - All preparations Probenecid - All preparations Probucol - - All preparations Procainamide; its salts -All preparations - All preparations Procarbazine; its salts - All preparations Procetarol All preparations for use in animal feeds - Preparations other than those in Group A Procyanidolic oligomers - All preparations Procyclidine; its salts - All preparations Propafenone; its salts - All preparations Proglumetacin; its salts - - All preparations Proglumide - - All preparations Proguanil; its salts - - All preparations Prolintane; its salts - All preparations Promoxolane - All preparations Propanidid - All preparations Propranoiol; its salts - All preparations Propantheline; its salts - - All preparations Propiverine - All preparations Propylhexedrine - All preparations Proquazone - - All preparations Prostaglandins and its derivatives; their salts; their esters - All preparations Protamine sulphate - - All preparations for parenteral adminstration - - All preparations unless in Group C Prothionamide - - All preparations Prothipendyl; its - All preparations Protriptyline; its salts - All preparations Prucalopride - All preparations Psilocine or psilotsin; its salts (DD) - All preparations Psilocybine; its salts (DD) - All preparations Pyrazinamide - All preparations Pyridinol carbamate - All preparations Pyridostigmine; its salts - - All preparations Pyrimethamine - - All preparations 

 104 Laws of Malaysia ACT 366 Pyrithyldione - - All preparations Pyrovalerone - All preparation α-Pyrrolidinovalerophenoe (α- PVP) - All preparation Quetiapine; its salts - All preparation Quinagolide; its salts - All preparation Quinapril - All preparation Quinethazone - All preparation Quinidine; its salts - All preparation Quinine; its salts - All preparations unless exempted - - - Preparations used as bitter, flavouring agent or in the manufacture of polarizing glasses and plastics Quinolinyl 1-(5- fluoropentyl)- 1H- indole carboxylate (5F- PB-22) (DD) - All preparation Rabeprazole; its salts - All preparations Racecadotril - - All preparations Ractopamine All preparations Unless Part II - - - When compounded with animal feeds Radium and other radioactive substances for therapeutic or diagnostic use - All preparations Rafoxanide - All preparations Raltegravir - All preparations Ramipril - All preparations Ranitidine; its salts - - All preparations Ranitidine bismuth citrate - All preparations Ranolazine - All preparations Rasburicase - All preparations Ravidasvir - All preparations Rebamipide - All preparations Reproterol All preparation for use in animal feeds - Preparations other than those in Group A Retinol; its esther - All preparations in pharmaceutical dosage forms for human use, containing more than 10,000 i.u. of Vitamin A per dosage unit All preparations for parenteral administration unless in Group B - - All preparations unless in Group B and Group C Recombinant- Methionyl Human Granulocyte-colony stimulating factor - All preparations Regorafenib - All preparations Remdesivir - All preparations Repaglinide - - All preparations Retigabine - All preparations Ribavirin - All preparations Ribociclib - All preparations Rilmenidine; its salts All preparations Rilpivirine - All preparations 

 Poisons 105 Rimiterol All preparation for use in animal feeds - Preparations other than those in Group A Rimonabant - All preparations Riociguat - All preparations Ripasudil - All preparations Risdiplam - All preparations Risedronate; its salts - All preparations Risperidone - All preparations Ritonavir - All preparations Rivaroxaban - All preparations Rivastigmine; its salts - All preparations Rizatriptan; its salts - All preparations Robenacoxib - All preparations Robenidine - All preparations Rocuronium; its salts - All preparations Rofecoxib - All preparations Roflumilast - All preparations Rolicyclidine or PHP or PCPY (DD) - All preparations Ronidazole All preparations Romiplostim - All preparations Ropinirole; its salts - All preparations Rosiglitazone; its salts - - All preparations Rosoxacin - All preparations Rosuvastatin - All preparations Rotigotine - All preparations Roxatidine - - All preparations Rufinamide - All preparations Rurioctocog alfa pegol - All preparations Ruxolitinib - All preparations Sacubitril - All preparations Safinamide - All preparations Safrole; includes safrole-rich oil - - - - All preparation Preparations containing safrole as flavouring agent and perfumes Salbutamol All preparation for use in animal feeds - Preparations other than those in Group A Salinomycin - All preparations Salmeterol All preparation for use in animal feeds - Preparations other than those in Group A Santonin - - All preparations Sapropterin - All preparations Saquinavir; its salts - All preparations Sarolaner - All preparations Savin, oil of - - All preparations Saxagliptin - All preparations Secnidazole - All preparations unless in Group C Pessaries Preparation for external use Selamectin - All preparations 

 106 Laws of Malaysia ACT 366 Selegiline; its salts - All preparations Selenium sulphide - - All preparations Unless exempted - - Preparation for external use Containing 1% w/v or less Selenim Sulphide Selexipag - All preparations Selumetinib - All preparations Semaglutide - All preparations Semduramicin - All preparations Semustine; its salts - All preparations Sermoreline GRF - All preparations Sertaconazole; its salts - All preparations unless in Group C Preparation for external use Sertindole - All preparations Sertraline; its salts - All preparations Sevelamer - All preparations Sevoflurane - All preparations Sex Hormones-androgenic, oestrogenic and progestational, the following: - All preparations with androgenic properties unless in Group C or exempted All preparation unless in Group B or exempted - - Preparations for external use containing not more than 40 ppm or oestrogenic substances Benzoestrol. Derivatives of stilbene or Naphthalene with oestrogenic activity; their esters Steroid compounds with androgenic, oestrogenic or progestational activity; their esters - (1) All preparations with androgenic properties unless in Group C or exempted (2) Progestational preparations for subdermal implant All preparations unless in Group B or exempted - - Preparations for external use containing not more than 40 ppm of oestrogenic substances Sibutramine - All preparations Sildenafil - All preparations Silodosin - All preparations Simeprevir - All preparations Simoctocog alfa - All preparations Simvastatin - All preparations Siponimod - All preparations Sirolimus - All preparations Sitagliptin - All preparations Sodium cromoglycate - - All preparations 

 Poisons 107 Sodium hydroxide - - All preparations for therapeutic or diagnostic use All preparations containing 12% and over other than those in Part I or exempted and subject to the provisions of Poisons (Sodium Hydroxide) Regulations 1962 (1) Under 12% (2) Sodium hydroxide when use as food additive in food (3) Its analogues, homologues, compounds, intermediates, derivatives, esters, ethers, salts and other substances structurally derived Sodium zirconium cyclosilicate - All preparations Sofosbuvir - All preparations Somatostatin - All preparations Solifenacin - - All preparations Sorafenib - All preparations Sotalol; its salts - All preparations Sparteine; its salts - All preparations Spironolactone - All preparations Stavudine; its salts - All preparations Streptokinase - All preparations Streptozocin - All preparations Strophanthus, glycosides of - All preparations Styramate - All preparations Succinylated gelatin - - All preparations for parenteral administration - - All preparations unless in Group C Sucroferric oxyhydroxide - All preparations Sugammadex - All preparations Sulconazole; its salts - All preparations unless in Group C Pessaries. Preparations for external use Sulindac - All preparations Sulphinpyrazone - All preparations Sulphonal; alkyl sulphonals - - All preparations When compound with animal feeds Sulphonamides; their salts; their derivatives All preparations unless in Group B, Group C, Group D and Part II All preparations in pharmaceutical dosage form and veterinary preparations compounded with one or more ingredients including preparations intended for inclusion in animal feed unless in Group A. Group C, Group D and Part II Suppositories and preparations for topical use in the nose, eyes and ears. Lozenges and preparations for external use only Preparation for laboratory use 

 108 Laws of Malaysia ACT 366 Sulphuric acid - - - - 9% w/w and over unless exempted (1) Under 9% w/w (2) Accumulators; batteries; fire-extinguishers (3) Its analogues, homologues, compounds, intermediates, derivatives, esters, ethers, salts and other substances structurally derived Sulpiride - All preparations Sultopride - All preparations Sumatriptan; its salts - All preparations Sunitinib maleate - All preparations Suxamethonium; its salts - All preparations Syrosingopine - All preparations Tacrine; its salts - All preparations Tacrolimus - All preparations unless in Group C Preparations for external use Tadalafil - All preparations Tafamidis - All preparations Tafluprost - All preparations Talazoparib - All preparations Tamoxifen; its salts - All preparations Tamsulosin - All preparations Tapentadol - All preparations Tegafur - All preparations Tegaserod - All preparations Telithromycin - All preparations Teicoplanin All preparations Telbivudine - All preparations Telmisartan - All preparations Telithromycin - All preparations Temozolomide - All preparations Temsirolimus - All preparations Tenecteplase - All preparations Tenocyclidine or TCP; its salts (DD) - All preparations Tenofovir - All preparations Tenonitrozole - All preparations unless in Group C Pessaries Preparations for external use Tenoxicam - - All preparations Terazosin; its salts - All preparations Terbinafine; its salts - All preparations unless exempted - - Preparations for external use Terbutaline All preparations for use in animal feeds - Preparations other than those in Group A Terconazole - All preparations Pessaries 

 Poisons 109 unless in Group C Preparations for external use Teriflunomide - All preparations Teriparatide - All preparations Teropterin - All preparations Tertatolol - All preparations Tetrabenazine; its salts - All preparations Tetrahydrozoline; its salts - - All preparations Tetramisole - All preparations Tetrofosmin - - All preparations for parenteral administration - - All preparations unless in Group C Thalidomide - All preparations Thallium; salts of - All medicinal preparations - All preparations unless in Group B Theophylline; its salts - - All medical preparations Preparations other than medicinal preparations unless exempted - Naturally occurring theophylline in tea, coffee or cocoa Thiacetazone - - All preparations Thiambutosine - All preparations Thiocarlide; its salts - All preparations Thiocolchicoside - All preparations Thiomersal - - All preparations unless exempted - - Therapeutic substances containing less than 0.1% of Thiomersal as a preservative Thionyl Chloride - - - All preparations unless exempted Its analogues, homologues, compounds, intermediates, derivatives, esters, ethers, salts and other substances structurally derived Thiotepa - All preparations Thiouracil and other substances structurally derived therefrom - All medicinal preparations - All preparations unless in Group B Thyroid gland, the active principles of; their salts - - All preparations Tiagabine; its salts - All preparations Tianepine; its salts - All preparations Tiapride; its salts - All preparations Tiaprofenic acid - All preparations Ticagrelor - All preparations Ticlopidine - All preparations Tibolone - - All preparations Tiemonium; its salts - - All preparations Tiletamine; its salts - All preparations Tiludronic acid; its salts - All preparations Timepidium; its salts - All preparations Timolol; its salts - All preparations Tinidazole - All preparations unless in Group C Pessaries 

 110 Laws of Malaysia ACT 366 Preparations for external use Tinoridine; its salts - - All preparations Tioconazole - All preparations unless in Group C Pessaries. Preparations for external use Tiotropium bromide - - All preparations Tipepidine hybenzate - - All preparations Tipiracil - All preparations Tirofiban - All preparations Todrazoline; its salts - All preparations Tofacitinib - All preparations Tolbutamide; its salts - - All preparations Tolcapone - All preparations Tolcyclamide - - All preparations Tolfenamic acid - All preparations Tolmetin; its salts - All preparations Tolperison; its salts - All preparations Tolterodine - - All preparations Toltrazuril - All preparations Tolvaptan - All preparations Topiramate - All preparations Topotecan; its salts - All preparations Torasemide - All preparations Toremifene; its salts - All preparations Trabectedin - All preparations Tramadol; its salts - All preparations Tranexamic acid - All preparations unless exempted - - - Tranexamic acid in cosmetic which is notified under the Control of Drugs and Cosmetics Regulations 1984 Trapidil - All preparations Travoprost - All preparations Tretamine; its salts - All preparations Tretinoin - - All preparations Tretoquinol All preparations for use in animal feeds - Preparations other than those in Group A Triamterene - All preparations Triaziquone - All preparations Tribenoside - - All preparations Tribromoethanol - All preparations 2,2,2-Trichloroethanol; esters of; their salts - All preparations 3-Trifluoromethylphenylpiperazine (TFMPP) - All preparations Trifluridine - All preparations Triflusal - All preparations 

 Poisons 111 Triglycerides - - All preparations for parenteral administration - - All preparations unless in Group C Trimebutine maleate - All preparations Trimetaphan camsylate - All preparations Trimetazidine; its salts - - All preparations 3, 4, 5-Trimethoxy- - Aamphetamine (TMA) (DD) - All preparations Trimetrexate; its salts - All preparations Tromantadine; its salts - All preparations unless in Group C Preparations for external use Trimipramine; its salts - All preparations Trioxsalen - All preparations Triptorelin - All preparations Trofosfamide - All preparations Tropicamide - - All preparations Tropisetron; its salts - All preparations Trospium chloride - - All preparations Troxidone - All preparations L-Tryptophan - All preparations unless exempted - - - (1) Preparations containing naturally occurring L – Tryptophan (2) Animal feed or feed additive (3) Food and its added nutrient Tubocurarine; its salts - All preparations Tulobuterol All preparations for use in animal feeds - Preparations other than those in Group A Tybamate - All preparations Udenafil - All preparations Ulinastatin - All preparations unless exempted - - - Naturally occurring ulinastatin Ulipristal - - All preparations Umeclidinium - All preparations Upadacitinib - All preparations Urapidil - All preparations Urea in medicinal preparation containing 40% and above of urea - - All medicinal preparations 13C-Urea in medicinal preparations - - All medicinal preparations Urokinase - All preparations Ursodeoxycholic acid - - All preparations Vaccines, sera, toxoids, antitoxins, antigens and immunoglobulins for human use Valaciclovir; its salts - All preparations Valbenazine - All preparations 

 112 Laws of Malaysia ACT 366 Vaidecoxib - All preparations Valepotriates - - All preparations unless exempted Valganciclovir - All preparations Valproic acid; its salts - All preparations Valsartan - All preparations Vancomycin Veterinary preparations for food-producing animals All preparations unless in Group A or Group D - Preparations for laboratory use Vardenafil - All preparations Varenicline tartrate - - All preparations Vasopressins - All preparations Vecuronium; its salts - All preparations Velpatasvir - All preparations Vemurafenib - All preparations Venetoclax - All preparations Venlafaxine; its salts - All preparations Veralipride - All preparations Verapamil; its salts - - All preparations Vericiguat - All preparations Verteporfin - All preparations Vernakalant - All preparations Verteporfin - All preparations Vidarabine - All preparations Vigabatrin - All preparations Vilanterol - All preparations Vildagliptin - All preparations Viloxazine; its salts - All preparations Vitamins; the following: Alfacalcidol Ascorbic acid Cyanocobalamin Ergocalciferol Mecobalamin Menaquinone Panthotenic acid Phytomenadione Pyridoxine Riboflavin Thiamine Tocopherol - - All preparations for parenteral administration - - All preparations unless in Group C Vismodegib - All preparations Vonoprazan - All preparations Voriconazole - All preparations Vorinostat - All preparations Vortioxetine - All preparations Warfarin; its salts - All preparations for human use Xanthinol nicotinate - All preparations Ximelagatran - All preparations 

 Poisons 113 In the construction of this List, unless the contrary intention appears, a reference to a substance mentioned in the first column of this Schedule shall include a reference to that s ubstance prepared either from natural sources or synthetically. The following shall apply to all substances mentioned in the first column of this Schedule: unless already specified, the analogues, homologues, compounds, intermediates, derivatives, isomers, esters, ethers and salts of the substances mentioned in the first column of this Schedule and other substances structurally derive d. Xipamide - All preparations Xylazine - All preparations - - - - Xylometazoline; its salts - - All preparations Zafirlukast - All preparations Zalcitabine - All preparations Zaleplon - All preparations Zanamivir - All preparations Zidovudine - All preparations Zinc p-phenolsulphonate - - Medicinal preparations unless exempted All preparations other than Group C and exempted - Strengths of 5% and under Zipeprol - All preparations Ziprasidone Hydrochloride Monohydrate - All preparations Zofenopril calcium - All preparations Zolazepam - All preparations Zoledronic acid; its salts - All preparations Zolmitriptan - All preparations Zolpidem - All preparations Zomepirac; its salts - All preparations Zonisamide - All preparations Zopiclone - All preparations Zoxazolamine; its salts - All preparations 

Poisons 114 POISONS LIST APPENDIX Amoebicides: Carbarsone Clioquinol and other halogenated hydroxyquinoline compounds except halquinol Dehydroemetine; its salts Diloxanide; its compounds Dimetridazole Emetine Halquinol Ipronidazole Metronidazole Pentamidine; its salts Ronidazole Anaesthetics: Alphadolone acetate Alphaxolone Desflurane Diphenidine Disoprofol Enflurane Ethyl ether Etomidate; its salts Halothane Isoflurane Ketamine; its salts Local anaesthetics, the following: their salts; their homologues and analogues; their molecular compounds Methoxetamine (MXE) 3-Methoxyphencyclidine (3-MeO-PCP) Amino-alcohols esterified with benzoic acid, phenylacetic acid, phenylpropionic acid, cinnamic acid or the derivatives of these acids; their salts Benzocaine Bupivacaine Butyl aminobenzoate Cinchocaine Diperodon Etidocaine Levobupivacaine Lignocaine Mepivacaine Orthocaine Oxethazaine Phenacaine Phenodianisyl Prilocaine Ropivacaine Tetracaine Phencyclidine Propanidid Sevoflurane 

Poisons 115 Tiletamine; its salts Tribromoethanol Analeptics and Central Stimulants: N-[(2S)Amino-3,3-dimethyloxobutanyl](cyclohexylmethyl)-1H-indazole Carboxamide (ADB-CHMINACA, MAB-CHMINACA) (DD) N-[(2S)Aminomethyloxobutanyl]pentyl-1H-indazolecarboxamide (AB PINACA) (DD) Amiphenazole; its salts Amphetamine (DD) Bemegride Cathine Cathinone (DD) 4-Chloromethcathinone Dexamphetamine (DD); its salts Dexanphetamine; its salts Dimethoxybromoamphetamine (DOB) (DD) 2,5-Dimethoxychloroamphetamine (DOC) (DD) 2, 5-Dimethoxyamphetamine (DMA) (DD) 2, 5-Dimethoxyethylamphetamine (DOET) (DD) Dimethylone Ethamivan Ethylamphetamine N-Ethylhexedrone (NEH, Hexen, Ethyl-Hex) N-Ethyl MDA (DD) N-Ethylnorpentylone (Ephylone) (DD) Ethylone (3,4-Methylenedioxy-N-ethylcathinone) Ethylphenidate N-Hydroxy MDA (DD) Etryptamine (DD) Eutylone (DD) Fencamfamine Fenetylline Fluoroamphetamine (4-FA) (DD) 3-Fluoromethcathinone Lefetamine Leptazol Lisdexamfetamine Lobelia, alkaloids of Meclofenoxate; its salts Mephedrone Methamphetamine (DD) 5-Methoxy-3, 4-methylenedioxyamphetamine (MMDA) (DD) 5-Methoxy-N,N-methylisopropyltryptamine 4-Methyl-alpha-pyrrolidinobutiophenone 4-Methylbuphedrone Methyl 3,3-dimethyl(1-(pentenyl)-1H-indazolecarboxamido)butanoate(MDMB-4en- PINACA) (DD) Methylenedioxyamphetamine (MDA) (DD) Methylone Methcathinone (DD) Methiopropamine (MPA) 5-Methoxy-N,N-diisopropyltryptamine 3, 4-Methylenedioxymetamphetamine (MDMA) (DD) 4-Methylethcathinone (4-MEC) 

116 Laws of Malaysia ACT 366 Methyl (2S)({1-[(4-fluorophenyl)methyl]-1H-indazolecarbonyl}amino)methylbutanoate (FUB-AMB) (DD) 3- Methylmethcathinone (3-MMC Methylphenidate Methyl (2S){[1-(5-fluoropentyl)-1H-indazolecarbonyl]amino}-3,3-dimethylbutanoate (5F- ADB/5F-MDMB-PINACA) (DD) N-methyl(3, 4-methylenedioxyphenyl)butanamide (DD) Modafinil Nikethamide Paramethoxyamphetamine (PMA) (DD) Para-methoxymethylamphetamine (PMMA) (DD) Para-methylmethylaminorex (4,4’-DMAR) Pemoline (1-Pentyl-1H-indolyl)(2,2,3,3-tetramethylcyclopropyl)metahnone (UR-144) (DD) Pentedrone (α- methylaminovalerophenone) Picrotoxin Pipradrol Prolintane; its salts Pyrovalerone α-Pyrrolidinovalerophenone (α-PVP) Strychnine 3-Trifluoromethylphenylpiperazine (TFMPP) 3, 4, 5-Trimethoxyamphetamine (TMA) (DD) Analgesics including antipyretic and anti-inflammatory agents: Aceclofenac Acetanilide; alkylacetanilides N-(Adamantanyl)(5-fluoropentyl)-1H-indazolecarboxamide (5F-APINACA) N- (Adamantanyl)pentyl-1H-indazolecarboxamide (APINACA) Alclofenac [1-(5-fluoropentyl)-1H-indolyl](naphthaleneyl) methanone (AM-2201) Amidopyrine; its salts N-[(2S)Amino-3,3-dimethyloxobutanyl][(4-fluorophenyl) methyl]-1H-indazole carboxamide (ADB-FUBINACA) (DD) N- [(2S)Aminomethyloxobutan-2yl](cyclohexylmethyl)-1H-indazolecarboxamide (AB-CHMINACA) (DD) Balsalazide disodium Benzydamine; its salts Bucolome Bufexamac Bumadizone; its salts Buprenorphine Butorphanol; its salts Carprofen Celecoxib Cimicoxib Cinchophen and other substances structurally derived from 4-quinolinecarboxylic acid unless specified elsewhere in the List; their salts and esters N-{[1- (Cyclohexylmethyl)-1H-indol-3yl]carbonyl}methyl-L-valinate (MDMB-CHMICA) Dexmedetomidine, its salts Dezocine Diacerrein Diclofenac; its salts Diflunisal Dipyrone Enphenamic acid; its salts 

Poisons 117 Erenumab Ethoheptazine; its salts Etodolac Etoricoxib Fentiazac Firocoxib Floctaphenine Flufenamic acid; its salts, esters and ethers; their salts Flunixin [1-(5-Fluoropentyl)-1H-indolyl](2,2,3,3- tetrametylcyclopropyl) methanone (XLR-11) Galcanezumab Glaphenine Grapiprant Hydroxycinchoninic acid, derivatives of; their salts; their esters Ibuprofen and other substances structurally derived from 2-phenylpropionic acid Indomethacin; its salts Isoxicam Ketorolac Tromethamine Lonazolac; its salts Lumiracoxib Mefenamic acid; its salts; its esters; their salts Meloxicam Meptazinol; its salts Mesalazine 2-(2-Methoxyphenyl)(1-pentylindolyl)ethanone (JWH-250) Methyl 2-({[1-(5-fluoropentyl)-1H-indazolyl] carbonyl}amino)methylbutanoate (5F-AMB) Mofebutazone Nabumetone Nalbuphine Naphthalen-1yl-(1-pentyl-1H-indolyl) methanone (JWH-018) Naproxen; its salts Nefopam; its salts Nepafenac Niflumic acid Oxyphenbutazone Parecoxib Sodium Pentazocine Phenacetin Phenazone Phenazopyridine; its salts Phenylbutazone; its salts Primecrolimus Piroxicam Proglumetacin; its salts Proquazone Quinolinyl 1-(5-fluoropentyl)-1H-indole carboxylate (5F-PB-22) (DD) Rizatriptan, it salts Robenacoxib Rofecoxib Sulindac Tapentadol Tenoxicam Tiaprofenic acid Tinoridine; its salts Tolfenamic acid Tolmetin; its salts Tramadol; its salts Valdecoxib 

118 Laws of Malaysia ACT 366 Xylazine Zomepirac Anorectics: Amfepramone Aminorex Benzphetamine Chlorphentermine; its salts Fenfluramine; its salts Fenproporex Mazindol 4-Methylaminorex Mefenorex Phenbutrazate; its salts Phendimetrazine Phenmetrazine Phentermine Propylhexedrine Anthelmintics: Antimony; its chlorides, oxides, sulphides, antimonates, antimonites; organic compounds of antimony Closantel sodium Doramectin Emodepside Ivermectin Melarsomine Morantel Tartrate Moxidectin Niclosamide Oxyclozanide Phenylene-1, 4-diisothiocyanate Santonin Rafoxanide Santonin Tetramisole Selamectin Anti-alcoholic agents: Calcium carbimide Disulfiram Anti-asthmatics: Acepifylline Aminophylline Bambuterol Benralizumab Bitolterol Broxaterol Ciclesonide Clenbuterol 

Poisons 119 Diprophylline; its compounds Doxofyltine Etofylline; its compounds Fenoterol Formoterol Indacaterol Mepolizumab Montelukast Olodaterol Pirbuterol Reproterol Roflumilast Salbutamol Salmeterol Terbutaline Theophylline; its salts Tretoquinol Tulobuterol Umeclidinium Vilanterol Zafirlukast Antibiotics: Antibiotics, all substances of, their synthetic preparations; their salts; unless stated elsewhere in the List Avoparcin Chloramphenicols and other substances structurally derived therefrom, their salts; their esters Telithromycin Vancomycin Ertapenem Sodium Teicoplanin Anticholinergics: Aclidinium bromide Atropine Belladonna, alkaloids of Benzhexol; its salts Benztropine; its homologues; their salts Bevonium; its salts Biperiden; its salts Brimonidine; its salts Butinoline; its salts Butropium; its salts Camylofine; its salts Caramiphen; its salts; except caramiphen edisylate Chlorphenoxamine; its salts Clidinium; its salts Cyclopentolate; its salts Cycrimine; its salts Darifenacin Dicyclomine; its salts Diethazine; its salts Diphenidol hydrochloride Emepromium; its salts Ethopropazine; its salts 

120 Laws of Malaysia ACT 366 Fenpipramide; its salts Fesoteradine Glimepiride Glycopyrrolate Homatropine Hyoscine Imidafenacin Ipratropium; its salts Isopropamide; its salts Itopride, its salts Loperamide; its salts Methantheline; its salts Methixene; its salts Mirabegron Octamylamine Oxybutynin; its salt Oxyphencyclimine; its salts Oxyphenonium; its salts Pitofenone; its salts Prifinium Procyclidine; its salts Propantheline; its salts Propiverine Solanaceous alkaloids unless specified elsewhere in the List Solifenacin Tiemonium; its salts Timepidium; its salts Tiotropium bromide Tolterodine Tropicamide Anticholinesterases: Calabar bean, alkaloids of Demecarium bromide Distigmine; its salts Donepezil; its salts Dyflos Ecothiopate iodide Galantamine Neostigmine; its salts Physostigmine Pyridostigmine; its salts Rivastigmine; its salts Sugammadex Tacrine; its salts Anticonvulsants: Beclamide Cannabidiol Carbamazepine Ethosuximide Gabapentin Lacosamide Lamotrigine Levetiracetam 

Poisons 121 Oxcarbazepine Paramethadione Perampanel Phenacemide Phenytoin and other substances structurally derived from hydantoin; their salts Pregabalin Primidone Retigabine Rufinamide Tiagabine; its salts Topiramate Troxidone Valproic acid; its salts Vigabatrin Zonisamide Antidepressants: Amitriptyline; its salts Agomelatine Bupropion Butriptyline; its salts Citalopram; its salts Clofexamine; its salts Clomipramine; its salts Deanol; its salts Desipramine; its salts Desvenlafaxine Dibenzepin; its salts Dothiepin; its salts Doxepin; its salts Duloxetine; its salts Escitaloprom Fluoxetine; its salts Fluvoxamine; its salts Hydrazines, benzyl, phenethyl, phenoxyethyl; their alpha -methyl derivatives; acyl derivatives of any of the foregoing substances comprised in this item; salts of any compound comprised in this item for therapeutic use Imipramine; its salts Iprindole; its salts Iproclozide Isocarboxazid Lithium salts for therapeutic use Lofepramine Maprotiline; its salts Mesocarb Mianserin; its salts Milnacipran Mirtazapine Moclobemide Nefazodone; its salts Nialamide Nomifensine; its salts Nortriptyline; its salts Paroxetin Phenelzine; its salts Protriptyline; its salts 

122 Laws of Malaysia ACT 366 Sertindole Sertaline; its salts Tianeptine, its salts Trimipramine; its salts Venlafaxine, its salts Viloxazine; its salts Vortioxetine Antidiabetics: Acarbose Acetohexamide Alogliptin Canaglifozin Carbutamide CBPU or Chlorbenzensulfonylpyrrolidinourea Chlorpropamide; its salts Dapagliflozin Dulaglutide Empagliflozin Ertugliflozin Exenatide Glibenclamide Glibornuride Gliclazide Glimepiride Glipizide Gliquidone; its salts Glymidine; its salts Insulin Linagliptin Liraglutide Lixisenatide Luseogliflozin Metahexamide Metformin Miglitol Mitiglinide Nateglinide Phenformin Pioglitazone Repaglinide Rosiglitazone; its salts Saxagliptin Semaglutide Sitagliptin Tolbutamide; its salts Tolcyclamide Vildagliptin Antifungals and Antiprotozoals: Abatacept Alemtuzumab Amorolfine Amprolium Anidulafungin 

Poisons 123 Bifonazole Butoconazole Chlormidazole; its salts Clopidol Clotrimazole Decoquinate Diclazuril Diminazene Econazole; its salts Fenticonazole; its salts Fluconazole Flutrimazole; its salts Griseofulvin Imidocarb Isavuconazole Isoconazole; its salts Itraconazole Ketoconazole Maduramycin Micafungin sodium Miconazole; its salts Monensin Natamycin Nicarbazin Nimorazole Nystatin Ornidazole Oxiconazole Posaconazole Robenidine Salinomycin Secnidazole Semduramicin Sertaconazole, its salts Sulconazole, its salts Tenonitrozole Terbinafine; its salts Terconazole Tinidazole Tioconazole Toltrazuril Urea in medicinal preparation containing 40% and above of urea Topotecan; its sals Trabectedin Voriconazole Antihistamines: Alcaftadine Antihistamines, the following: Acrivastine Antazoline Astemizole Azatadine Azelastine Bamipine Bilastine 

124 Laws of Malaysia ACT 366 Bromodiphenhydramine Brompheniramine Buclizine Carbinoxamine Cetirizine Chlorcyclizine Chlorpheniramine Cinnarizine Clemastine Clemizole Cyclizine Cyproheptadine Desloratadine 3-Dibutylaminomethyl-4, 5, 6-trihydroxyisobenzofuranone Dimenhydrinate Diphenylpyraline Doxylamine Ebastine Emedastine Epinastine Fexofenadine Isothipendyl Levocabastine Levocetirizine Loratadine Mebhydrolin Meclozine Mequitazine Olapatadine Phenindamine Pheniramine Phenyltoloxamine Promethazine Pyrrobutamine Rupatadine Terfenadine Thenalidine Tolpropamine Triprolidine Substances being tetra-N-substituted derivatives of ethylenediamine and propylenediamine Antihypertensives: Alseroxylon Aliskiren Amlodipine Azilsartan Alseroxylon Befunolol; its salts Benazepril; its salts Betaxolol; its salts Bethanidine; its salts Bretylium; its salts Bunazosin; its salts Candesartan; its salts Captopril Carvedilol Cilazapril 

Poisons 125 Cilnidipine Clonidine; its salts Debrisoquine; its salts Delapril, its salts Deserpidine; its salts Diazoxide Dihydrallazine; its salts Doxazosin; its salts Enalapril; its salts Felodipine Fimasartan Fosinopril; its salts Guanethidine; its salts Guanfacine; its salts Hexamethonium; its salts Hydrallazine; its salts Imidapril HCI Irbesartan Ketanserin Labetalol; its salts Lacidipine Lercanidipine Lisinopril Losartan; its salts 10-Methoxydeserpidine Methyldopa Minoxidil; its salts; its derivatives Monoxidine N-Methylephedrine camsylate Moxonidine Nebivolol Nilvadipine Nimodipine Nisoldipine Nitrendipine Olmesartan medoxomil Oxyclozanide Pargyline; its salts Pempidine; its salts Perindopril Phentolamine; its salts Prazosin; its salts Quinapril Ramipril Rauwolfia, alkaloids of Rilmenidine; its salts Riociguat Syrosingopine Telmisartan Tertatolol Terazosin, its salts Todrazoline; its salts Trimethaphan camsylate Urapidil Valsartan Veratrum, alkaloids of Zofenopril calcium 

126 Laws of Malaysia ACT 366 Antileprotics: Clofazimine Dapsone Thiambutosine Antimalarials: Artemether Artesunate Chloroquine; its salts Hydroxychloroquine; its salts Lymefantrine Mefloquine; its salts Primaquine; its salts Proguanil; its salts Pyrimethamine Quinine; its salts Antineoplastic agents and Immunosuppressants: Abatacept Abemaciclib Alemtuzumab Alpelisib Abiraterone Acalabrutinib Afatinib Alectinib Aminopterine Aminoglutethimide Amivantamab Anastrozole Apalutamide Apremilast L-Asparaginase Atezolizumab Avelumab Axitinib Azathioprine; its salts Baricitinib Basiliximab Belimumab Bendamustine Bevacizumab Bicalutamide Blinatumomab Bortezomib Brentuximab Brigatinib Brodalumab Busulphan; its salts Cabazitaxel Cabozantinib Canakinumab Capecitabine 

Poisons 127 Capmatinib Carboplatin Carfilzomib Carmustine; its salts Ceritinib Casirivimab Certolizumab Cetuximab Chlorambucil; its salts Cisplatin Cladribine Clofarabine Cobimetinib Crizotimib Cyclophosphamide; its salts Cyclosporin Cytarabine; its salts Dacliximab Dacomitinib Daratumumab Dasatinib Decitabine Docetaxel Durvalumab Entrectinib Enzalutamide Erlotinib Eribulin Mesylate Etanercept Exemestane Everolimus Fludarabine; its salts Fluorouracil and other substances structurally derived from uracil Formestane Fotemustine Fulvestrant Gefitinib Gemcitabine; its salts Guselkumab Hydroxyurea Ibrutinib Idarubicin Idelalisib Imdevimab Infliximab Irinotecan; its salts Ixazomib Ixekizumab Lapatinib Ditosylate Leuprolide; its salts Letrozole Lomustine; its salts Lorlatinib Mannomustine; its salts Megestrol Acetate Mercaptopurine and other substances structurally derived therefrom; their salts Methotrexate; its salts Midostaurin 

128 Laws of Malaysia ACT 366 Miltefosine Mitopodozide; its salts Mitoxantrone; its salts Mustine and other substances structurally derived therefrom; their salts Mycophenolic acid Natalizumab Necitumumab Neratinib Nilotinib Nintedanib Nivolumab Obinutuzumab Octreotide Ofatumumab Olaparib Orthopterin Osimertinib Oxaliplatin Paclitaxel Palbociclib Panitumumab Panobinostat Pazopanib Pegaspargase Pembrolizumab Pemetrexed Penclovir Pertuzumab Pirfenidone Polatuzumab vedotin Pomalidomide Ponatinib Pralatrexate Raltegravir Ramucirumab Procarbazine; its salts Rasburicase Regorafenib Ribociclib Risankizumab Rituximab Romosozumab Ruxolitinib Secukinumab Selumetinib Sarilumab Satralizumab Semustine; its salts Siltuximab Simeprevir Siponimod Sirolimus Sorafenib Streptozocin Sunitinib maleate Streptozocin Tacrolimus Talazoparib 

Poisons 129 Tamoxifen; its salts Temozolomide Tegafur Temozolomide Temsirolimus Teriflunomide Teropterin Thalidomide Thiotepa Tocilizumab Tofacitinib Topotecan; its salts Trabectedin Trastuzumab Tretamine; its salts Triaziquone Trimetrexate Triptorelin Trofosfamide Upadacitinib Vedolizumab Vemurafenib Venetoclax Vinca, alkaloids of Vismodegib Vorinostat Antiparkinsonism agents: Benserazide; its salts Carbidopa Entacapone Levodopa Pergolide Mesylate Pramipexole, its salts Ropinirole Rotigotine Safinamide Selegiline; its salts Tolcapone Antithyroids: Carbimazole; its salts Methimazole; its salts Paricalaitol Thiouracil and other substances structurally derived therefrom Antitubercular agents: p-Aminosalicyclic acid other substances structurally derived therefrom; their salts; their esters Bedaquiline Ethambutol; its salts Ethionamide Isoniazid; its salts Prothionamide 

130 Laws of Malaysia ACT 366 Pyrazinamide Thiacetazone Thiocarlide; its salts Antitussives: Benproperine; its salts Butamirate; its salts Caramiphen edisylate Carbetapentane; its salts Chlophedianol; its salts Cloperastine; its salts Dextromethorphan; its salts Destrophan; its salts Dextrorphan; its salts Dimethoxanate; its salts Dropropizine Isoaminile; its salts Levodropropizine; its salts Noscapine Pipazethate; its salts Tipepidine Hybenzate Zipepro Anti-ulcer agents: Cimetidine; its salts Famotidine Lansoprazole Nizatidine Omeprazole Pantoprazole; its salts Rabeprazole; its salts Ranitidine; its salts Rebamipide Roxatidine Vonoprazan Antiviral agents: Abacavir; its salts Acyclovir Adefovir dipivoxil Levodropropizine; its salts Amantadine and other substances structurally derived therefrom ; their salts unless specified elsewhere in the List Atazanavir Baloxavir marboxil Boceprevir Cilgavimab Clevudine Daclatasvir Darunavir Dasabuvir Didanosine Dolutegravir Efavirenz 

Poisons 131 Elbasvir Elvitegravir Emtricitabine Enfurvitide Entecavir Etravirine Famciclovir Favipiravir Foscarnet Trisodium Hexahydrate Ganciclovir Glecaprevir Grazoprevir Hexakis zinc Idoxuridine Indinavir; its salts Interferons Labuvirtide Lamivudine Ledipasvir Letermovir Lopinavir Maraviroc Methisazone Methisoprinol Molnupiravir Moroxydine; its salts Nelfinavir; its salts Nevirapine; its salts Nirmatrelvir Ombitasvir Oseltamivir Paritaprevir Penciclovir Pibrentasvir Ravidasvir Regdanvimab Remdesivir Ribavirin Rilpivirine Ritonavir Saquinavir; its salts Sofosbuvir Sotrovimab Stavudine; its salts Telbivudine Tenofovir Tixagevimab Trifluridine Tromantadine; its salts Valaciclovir; its salts Velpatasvir Vidarabine Zalcitabine Zanamivir Zidovudine 

132 Laws of Malaysia ACT 366 Cardio drugs: Ambrisentan Adenosine Acebutolol; its salts Alprenolol; its salts Amrinone; its salts Anistreplase Atenolol; its salts Bisoprolol fumarate Bopindolol Carteolol; its salts Digitalis, glycosides of; other active principles of digitalis Disopyramide; its salts Dofetilide Dronedarone Eplerenone Esmolol; its salts Flecainide; its salts Ivabradine Levobunolol; its salts Macitentan Metipranolol Metoprolol; its salts Mexiletine; its salts Milrinone Nadolol Ouabain Oxprenolol; its salts Pimobendan Pindolol; its salts Practolol; its salts Procainamide; its salts Propafenone; its salts Propranolol; its salts Quinidine; its salts Sacubitril Ranolazine Sotalol; its salts Strophanthus, glycosides of Timolol; its salts Tirofiban Vericiguat Vernakalant Cholinergics: Acetylcholine; its salts Bethanechol; its salts Carbachol Jaborandi, alkaloids of Methacholine; its salts Pilocarpine Dermatological agents: Acitretin 

Poisons 133 Adapalene Azelaic acid Calcipotriol Calcitriol Dithranol Dupilumab Etretinate Hydroquinone Isotretinoin Methoxsalen Oclacitinib Tretinoin Trioxsalen Diuretics: Acetazolamide Amiloride; its salts Aminometradine Amisometradine Bumetanide Chlormerodrine Chlorothiazide and other substances structurally derived from benzothiadiazine Chlorthalidone and other substances structurally derived from O-chlorbenzene sulphonamide Cicletanine; its salts Clopamide Clorexolone Ethacrynic acid; its salts Frusemide Indapamide Metolazone Quinethazone Spironolactone Tolvaptan Torasemide Triamterene Xipamide Emetics: Apomorphine; its salts Hallucinogens: 2-amino(2, 5-dimethoxymethyl) phenylpropane (DD) 2-(4-Bromo-2,5-dimethoxyphenyl)-N-(2-methoxybenzyl)ethanamine (25B-NBOMe) (DD) 2-(4-Chloro-2,5-dimethoxyphenyl)-N-(2-methoxybenzyl)ethanamine(25C-NBOMe) (DD) Bufotenine; its esters and ethers; their salts DET or N, N-Diethyltryptamine; its salts (DD) DMHP or 3-(1, 2-dimethylheptyl)hydroxy-7, 8, 9, 10-tetra-hydro-6, 6, 9-trimethyl-6H-dibenzo [b, d] pyran (DD) DMT or N, N-Dimethyltryptamine; its salts (DD) Eticyclidine or PCE; its salts (DD) 2-(4-Iodo-2,5-dimethoxyphenyl)-N-(2-methoxybenzyl)ethanamine(25I-NBOMe) (DD) 

134 Laws of Malaysia ACT 366 LSD or LSD-25 or (+)-N, N-diethyllysergamide or d-lysergic acid diethylamide (DD); its derivatives (DD) Mescaline or 3, 4, 5-trimethoxyphenethylamine; its salts (DD) Parahexyl (DD) Psilocine or Psilotsin; its salts (DD) Psilocybine; its salts (DD) Rolicyclidine or PHP or PCPY (DD) STP or DOM or 2-amino(2, 5-dimethoxymethyl) phenylpropane (DD) Tenocyclidine or TCP; its salts (DD) Hormones: Corticotrophins Cortisone, hydrocortisone; their derivatives, analogues and homologues; their salts Drospirenone Erythropoietin Ganirelix Hypothalamic Hormones and their analogues Lutropin alfa (Recombinant human luteinising hormones) Oxytocins Pituitary gland, the active principles of, other than corticotrophins, oxytocins and vasopressins Samatostatin Sex Hormones-androgenic, oestrogenic and progestational, the following: Benzoestrol Derivatives of stilbene or naphthalene with oestrogenic activity; their salts Steroid compounds with androgenic, oestrogenic or progestational activity; their esters Thyroid gland, the active principles of; their salts Tibolone Toremifene, its salts Vasopressins Hypnotics and sedatives: Acetylcarbromal Apronalide Azaperone Barbituric acid Brotizolam Bromvaletone Carbromal Carbromide Chloral, its condensation products; its addition products; their molecular compounds Chlormethiazole; its salts Ectylurea Embutramide Ethchlorvynol Ethinamate Glutethimide Hexapropymate Lemborexant Mecloqualone Methaqualone Methylpentynol; its esters and other derivatives; their salts Methyprylone Paraldehyde Pyrithyldione Sulphonal; alkylsulphonals 

Poisons 135 2, 2, 2-Trichloroethanol, esters of; their salts Valepotriates Zaleplon Zolpidem Zopiclone Industrial and laboratory poisons: Acetic anhydride Alpha-Phenylacetoacetonitrile (APAAN)N-acetylanthranilic acid N-Benzylpiperazine (BZP) Acetyl bromide Acetyl chloride Alpha-Phenylacetoacetamide (APAA) Alpha -Phenylacetoacetonitrile (APAAN) Ammonia Anthranilic acid; its salts N-Benzylpiperazine (BZP) Chloroform Formaldehyde Gamma Butryrolactone Hydrochloric acid; hydrogen chloride Hydrofluoric acid Hydrogen Bromide Isosafrole Lysergic acid; its salts Methyl alpha-phenylacetoacetate (MAPA) 3,4-MDPP Methyl glycidate (PMK glycidate) 3,4-MDPP Methyl glycidic acid (PMK glycidic acid) 3,4-methylenedioxy phenylpropanone Nitric acid Nitrobenzene Oxalic acid; metallic oxalates Phenylacetic acid; its salts 1-Phenylpropanone Piperazine Piperidine unless specified elsewhere in the List Piperonal Potassium hydroxide Potassium permanganate Safrole; includes safrole-rich oil Sodium hydroxide Sulphuric acid Thionyl chloride Muscle relaxants: Alcuronium chloride Alverine citrate Atracurium; its salts Baclofen; its salts Benzoquinonium chloride Carisoprodol Chlorzoxazone Cisatracurium besylate Curare, alkaloids of Dantrolene; its salts 

136 Laws of Malaysia ACT 366 Decamethonium; its salts Eperisone; its salts Fazadinium bromide Gallamine; its salts; its quarternary compounds Gamma Butyrolactone Hexacarbacholine bromide Hexafluoronium bromide Idrocilamide Laudexium; its salts Mebeverine; its salts Mebezonium iodide Mephenesin; its esters Metaxalone Methocarbamol Mivacurium; its salts Orphenadrine; its salts Pancuronium bromide Papaverine Pipoxolon; its salts Promoxolane Rocuronium; its salts Styramate Suxamethonium; its salts Tolperison; its salts Tubocurarine; its salts Thiocolchicoside Vecuronium; its salts Narcotics: Narcotis substances; the followings: (DD) Acetorphine (DD) Acetyl-alpha-methyl-fentanyl (DD) Acetyldihydrocodeine (DD) Acetylfentanyl (DD) Acetylmethadol (DD) Acryloyfentanyl (DD) Alfentanil (DD) Allylprodine (DD) Alphacetylmethadol (DD) Alphameprodine (DD) Alphamethadol (DD) Alpha-methylfentanyl (DD) Alpha-methylthiofentanyl (DD) Alphaprodine (DD) Anileridine (DD) Benzethidine (DD) Benzylmorphine (DD) Beta-hydroxyfentanyl (DD) Beta-hydroxymethylfentanyl (DD) Betacetylmethadol (DD) Betameprodine (DD) Betamethadol (DD) Betaprodine (DD) Bezitramide (DD) 4-bromo-2, 5-dimethoxyphenethylamine (2C-B) (DD) Brorphine (DD) Butyrfentanyl 

Poisons 137 (DD) Cannabis, its resin, extracts and tinctures of; cannabin tannate (DD) Carfentanil (DD) Clonitazene (DD) Coca, alkaloids of (DD) Cocaine (DD) Codeine (DD) Codoxime (DD) Crotonylfentanyl (DD) 1-Cyclohexyl(1,2- diphenylethyl)piperazine (MT-45) (DD) Cyclopropylfentanyl (DD) Desomorphine (DD) Dextromoramide (DD) Dextropropoxyphene (DD) Diampromide (DD) 3,4-Dichloro-N-[(1-dimethylamino) cyclohexylmethyl]benzamide (AH-7921) (DD) 3,4-Dichloro-N-[2-(dimethylamino)cyclohexyl]-N-methylbenzamide (U-47700) (DD) Diethylthiambutene (DD) Difenoxin (DD) Dihydrocodeine (DD) Dihydroetorphine (DD) Dihydromorphine (DD) Dimenoxadol (DD) Dimepheptanol (DD) Dimethylthiambutene (DD) Dioxaphetyl butyrate (DD) Diphenoxylate (DD) Dipipanone (DD) Drotebanol (DD) Ecgonine (DD) Ethylmethylthiambutene (DD) Ethylmorphine (DD) Etonitazene (DD) Etorphine (DD) Etoxeridine (DD) Fentanyl (DD) 4-Fluoroisubutyrfentanyl (4-FIBF,pFIBF) (DD) Furanyl fentanyl (DD) Furethidine (DD) Gamma hydroxybutric acid (GHB) (DD) Heroin or diacetylmorphine (DD) Hydrocodone (DD) Hydromorphinol (DD) Hydromorphone (DD) Hydroxypethidine (DD) Isomethadone (DD) Isotonitazene (DD) Ketobemidone (DD) Levomethorphan (DD) Levomoramide (DD) Levophenacylmorphan (DD) Levorphanol (DD) Metazocine (DD) Methadone (DD) Methadone-Intermediate (DD) Methoxyacetylfentanyl (DD) Methyldesorphine (DD) Methyldihydromorphine 

138 Laws of Malaysia ACT 366 (DD) 3-methylfentanyl (DD) 4-Methylthioamphetamine (4-MTA) (DD) 3-methylthiofentanyl (DD) 1-methylphenylpiperidinol propionate (MPPP) (DD) Metonitazene (DD) Metopon (DD) Moramide-Intermediate (DD) Morpheridine (DD) Morphine (DD) Morphine methobromide and other pentavalent nitrogen morphine derivatives, including in particular the morphine-N-oxide derivatives, one of which is Codeine-N-oxide (DD) Morphine-N-oxide (DD) Myrophine (DD) Nicocodine (DD) Nicodicodine (DD) Nicomorphine (DD) Noracymethadol (DD) Norcodeine (DD) Norlevorphanol (DD) Normethadone (DD) Normorphine (DD) Norpipanone (DD) Ocfentanil (DD) Opium (DD) Orthofluorofentanyl (DD) Oxycodone (DD) Oxymorphone (DD) Parafluorobutyrylfentanyl (DD) Para-flurofentanyl (DD) Pethidine (DD) Pethidine-Intermediate A (DD) Pethidine-Intermediate B (DD) Pethidine-Intermediate C (DD) Phenadoxone (DD) Phenampromide (DD) Phenazocine (DD) 1-phenethylphenylpiperidinol acetate (PEPAP) (DD) Phenomorphan (DD) Phenoperidine (DD) Pholcodine (DD) Piminodine (DD) Piritramide (DD) Proheptazine (DD) Properidine (DD) Propiram (DD) Racemethorphan (DD) Racemoramide (DD) Racemorphan (DD) Remifentanil (DD) Sufentanil (DD) Tetrahydrofuranyl fentanyl (THF-F) (DD) Thebacon (DD) Thebaine (DD) Thiofentanyl (DD) Tilidine (DD) Trimeperidine (DD) Valerylfentanyl 

Poisons 139 Narcotic antagonists: Diacetylnalorphine; its salts Levallorphan; its salts Nalorphine; its salts Naloxone; its salts Naltrexone; its salts Sulphonamides: Sulphonamides; their salts, derivatives Sympathomimetic amines: Adrenaline Atomoxetine; its salts 1,3- Dimethylamylamine (DMAA) Ephedra, alkaloids of Fenoxazoline; its salts Indanazoline; its salts Naphazoline; its salts Norephedrine Oxymetazoline; its salts Penethylamine Procaterol Rimiterol Tetrahydrozoline; its salts Xylometazoline; its salts Thrombolytics/Fibrinolytics: Alteplase Drotrecogin alfa (Recombinant human activated Protein C) Edoxaban Prasugrel Streptokinase Tenecteplase Urokinase Tranquillisers: Amisulpride Aripiprazole Asenapine Azacyclonol; its salts Benactyzine; its salts Benzoctamine; its salts 1,4-Benzodiazepine unless specified elsewhere in the List Benzquinamide Brexpiprazole Buspirone; its salts Captodiamine; its salts Cariprazine Chlormezanone Chlorpromazine 

140 Laws of Malaysia ACT 366 Chlorprothixene and other substances structurally derived from 9 -methylenethioxanthene; their salts Clobazam Clotiazepam Clothiapine Clozapine Cyclarbamate 1-(2,5-Dimethoxymethylphenyl)propanamine (STP/DOM) (DD) Emylcamate Etizolam Fluanisone; its salts Flunitrazepam (DD) Haloperidol and other substances structurally derived from butyrophenones; their salts Hydroxyphenamate Hydroxyzine; its salts Lurasidone Mebutamate Meprobamate Nimetazepam (DD) Olanzapine Paliperidone Pecazine; its salts Phenaglycodol Phenothiazine and other substances structurally derived from it; their salts; except Chlorpromazine, Dimethoxanate; its salts and Promethazine; its salts and molecular compounds Phenprobamate Pimozide Prothipendyl; its salts Risperidone Sulpiride Sultopride Tiapride; its salts Tetrabenazine; its salts Tybamate Valbenazine Ziprasidona Hydrocchloride Menohydrate Zolazepam Uricosuric agents: Allopurinol Benzbromarone Colchicine Febuxostat Probenecid Sulphinpyrazone Zoxazolamine; its salts Vaccines and other Immunological Products: Adalimumab Vaccines, sera, toxoids, antitoxins, antigens and immuneglobulins for human use Vasodilators: Amiodarone; its salts Amyl nitrite 

Poisons 141 Avanafil Bencyclane; its salts Bepridil; its salts Betahistine; its salts Buflomedil; its salts Diltiazem; its salts Dipyridamole Erythrityl tetranitrate Flunarizine; its salts Glyceryl trinitrate Hexobendine; its salts Inositol nicotinate Isosorbide dinitrate Isosorbide mononitrate Isradipine Lidoflazine Mannityl hexanitrate Molsidomin Naftidrofuryl acid oxalate Nicardipine; its salts Nifedipine Pentaerythritol tetranitrate Pentoxifylline Piribedil Prenylamine; its salts Sildenafil Tadalafil Trapidil Trimetazidine; its salts Udenafil Verapamil; its salts Vardenafil Xanthinol nicotinate Miscellaneous: Abciximab Acarbose Acetylcysteine Aconite, alkaloids of Aflibercept Afoxolaner Albutrepenonacog alfa Alefacept Alendronic acid, its salts Alfuzosin; its salts Alirocumab Allergens Alpha-Pyrrolidinohexanophenone (Alpha-PHP, PV-7) Amifostine, its salts; it esters Amino acids, unless specified elsewhere in the List N-[(2S)Aminomethyloxobutanyl][(4-fluorophenyl)methyl] indazole carboxamide (AB-FUBINACA) Anagrelide 4-Anilino-N-phenethylpiperidine (ANPP) Anticoagulant substances including heparin and other substances structurally derived from coumarin and phenindione unless specified elsewhere in the List 

142 Laws of Malaysia ACT 366 Apixaban Apraclonidine; its salts Aprepitant Aprotinin Arsenic, its organic and inorganic compounds Atorvastatin calcium Atosiban Barium, salts of Becaplermin Beroctocog alfa Bimatorprost Bismuth; its salts Bleomycin; its salts Boric acid and Sodium borate Botulinum toxin Brinzolamide Brolucizumab Bromhexine Bromides, inorganic and Ammonium bromide, for therapeutic use Bromocriptine; its salts Brucine Burosumab Tert-Butyl 4-(phenylamino)piperidinecarboxylate (1-bocAP) Cabergoline Caffeine Calcitonin Calcium dobesilate Calcium folinate Calcium gluconate Calcium polystyrene Calfactant Cantharidin; cantharides; cantharidates Carbadox Carbazochrome Sodium Sulphonate Carbenoxolone; its salts Carperidine; its salts Cerebrolysin Cerivastatin; its salts Cetrorelix Chenodeoxycholic acid Cianidanol Cilostazol Cinacalcet Cisapride Citicoline Clodronate disodium Clofibrate and other substances structurally derived therefrom; their salts and esters Clomiphene; its salts Clopidogrel Cobicistat Colfosceril; its esters Coniine Cotarnine Creosote, obtained from wood Crofelemer Cucurbitacin; its derivatives 1-(4-Cyanobutyl)-N-(2-phenylpropan-2yl)-1H-indazolecarboxamide (CUMYL-4CN-BINACA) (DD) 

Poisons 143 Cyclofenil Cyproterone acetate Cysteamine; its salts Dabigatran Danazol Dapoxetine Deferasirox Deferiprone Degarelix Denosumab Desferrioxamine Digitalis antitoxin Dimethyl-4,4'-dimethoxy, 5, 6, 5', 6'-dimethylenedioxy-biphenyl-2, 2'-dicarboxylate (DDB); its derivatives Dimethyl fumarate Dinitrocresols; their salts Dinitronaphthols Dinitrophenols Dinitrothymols Diquafosol Disodium clodronate Disodium edetate Dithienylallylamines, dithienylalkylamines; their salts Dolasetron Mesylate Domperidone Dorzolamide; its salts Doxapram Drotaverine; its salts Dutasteride Edaravone Efalizumab Elaterin Electrolytes; the following: Calcium chloride Potassium chloride Sodium bicarbonate Sodium chloride Sodium lactate Potassium dihydrogen phosphate Potassium phosphate Sodium glycerophosphate Magnesium sulphate Elosulfase Eltrombopag Emicizumab Eprinomectin Eptacog alpha Eptifibatide Erdosteine Ergot, alkaloids of Esafoxolaner Etelcalcetide Ethylidene diacetate Etidronate disodium Ezetimibe Evolocumab Fampridine Faricimab 

144 Laws of Malaysia ACT 366 Fenofibrate Finastreride Fingolimod Flavoxate; its salts Flucytosine Flumazenil Fluorescein sodium Fluorides, alkali; organofluorides 2-{[1-(4-Fluorobutyl)-1H-indazolecarbonyl]amino}-3,3-dimethylbutanoate(4-F-MDMB- BINACA, 4F-ADB, 4F-MDMB-BUTINACA) Fluralaner Flutamide Fluvastatin; its salts Fondaparinux sodium Fosaprepitant Fractionated blood products (plasma proteins obtained through a chemical manufacturing process for use on patients) Gadolinium chelate Gangliosides; its salts Gelsemium, alkaloids of 8-[N-(2-hydroxyethyl) methyl-amino]-1, 3, 7-trimethylxanthine Gemfibrozil Gestrinone Gimeracil Glucagon; its salts Glucose unless specified elsewhere in the List Glutathione Golimumab Granisetron; its salts Hemin; its easters Hydrogen cyanide; metal cyanides other than ferrocyanides and ferricyanides Hydroxyethylstarch 4-hydroxynitrophenylarsonic acid Ibandronic Acid Idarucizumab Iloprost Imatinib Imiglucerase Imiquimod Inclisiran Iobitridol Iodine Iomeprol Iopamidol Ketotifen Lanreotide; its salts Latanoprost Lanthanum carbonate Lead acetate; compounds of lead with acids from fixed oils Lead tetraethyl Leflunomide; its salts Lenograstim Levamisole; its salts Levosimendan Lodoxamide tromethamine Lonoctocog alfa Lovastatin Lubiprostone 

Poisons 145 Lung phospholipid Luspatercept Lysuride; its salts Mannitol Meglumine; its salts Melagatran; its salts Melatonin Memantine 2-Mercaptoethane Sulfonate Sodium (MESNA) Mercury Mesalazine Metergoline Methyl bromide 3,4-Methylenedioxypyrovalerone (MDPV) Methyl (2S){[1-(5-fluoropentyl)-1H-indolecarbonyl]amino}-3,3-dimethylbutanoate (5F-MDMB-PICA) Methylthioninium chloride Metoclopramide; its salts Metyrapone; its salts Minerals; the following, unless specified elsewhere in the List: Chromium Copper Fluorine Iron Manganese Selenium Zinc Mipomersen sodium Mitragynine, alkoloids of Mosapride Nalidixic acid and other subtances structurally derived therefrom; its salts Naratriptan; its salts Nedocromil sodium Netupitant Nicergoline; its salts Nicotine Nicotinic acid Nifuroxazide Nitric Oxide Nitrofurans Nitrophenols, ortho, meta and para Norfentanyl Nusinersen Nux Vomica, alkaloids of Ocriplasmin Olaquindox Omalizumab Omidenepag Ondansetron; its salts Oprelvekin Orlistat Oteracil potassium, Palivizumab Palonosetron Paracetamol Pamidronate disodium Pegabtanib Sodium Pegfilgrastim 

146 Laws of Malaysia ACT 366 Pegvisomant Pemafibrate Penicillamine; its salts Pentosan 5-Pentyl(2-phenylpropanyl)-2,5-dihydro-1H-pyrido[4,3-b]indolone (CUMYL-PEGACLONE)(DD) N-Phenethylpiperidinone (NPP) Phenolphthalein Phenols (any member of the series of phenols of which the first member is phenol and of which the molecular composition varies from member to member by one atom of carbon and t wo atoms of hydrogen); compounds of phenol with a metal N-Phenylpiperidinamine(4-AP) Phosphorus white, yellow, red or black Phosphorus Picric acid Pinaverium Pipermidic acid, its salts Piper methysticum (kava-kava) its salts Piracetam Pirenzepine; its salts Pirfenoxone; its salts Pitavastatin calcium Pizotifen; its salts Plerixafor Polidocanol Polymethylene bistrimethylammonium salts Pralidoxime Pravastatin Probucol Procyanidolic oligomers Proglumide Prostaglandins and its derivatives; their salts; their esters Protamine sulphate Prucalopride Pyridinol carbamate Quebracho, alkaloids of Quetiapine; its salts Quinagolide; its salts Racecadotril Ractopamine Radium and other radioactive substances for therapeutic or diagnostic use Rafoxanide Ranibizumab Ranitidine bismuth citrate Recombinant - Methionyl Human granulocyte - colony Stimulating factor Retinol; its esters Riluzole Rimonabant Ripasudil Risdiplam Risedronate; its salts Rivaroxaban Romiplostim Rosoxacin Rosuvastatin Rurioctocog alfa pegol Sabadilla, alkaloids of Sapropterin Sarolaner Savin, oil of 

Poisons 147 Selenium sulphide Selexipag Sermoreline GRF Sevelamer Sibutramine Silodosin Simoctocog alfa Simvastatin Sodium cromoglycate Sodium zirconium cyclosilicate Sparteine; its salts Stavesacre, alkaloids of Succinylated gelatin Sucroferric oxyhydroxide Sumatriptan Tafamidis Tafluprost Tamsulosin Tegaserod Teriparatide Tetrofosmin Thallium, salts of Thiomersal Ticagrelor Ticlopidine Tiludronic acid; its salts Tipiracil Tranexamic acid Travoprost Tribenoside Triflusal Triglycerides Trimebutine; its salts Tropisetron; its salts Trospium chloride L-Tryptophan Ulinastatin Ulipristal Ursodeoxycholic acid 13C-Urea in medicinal preparations Ustekinumab Valganciclovir Varenicline tartrate Veralipride Verteporfin Vitamins; the following: Alfacalcidol Ascorbic acid Cyanocobalamin Ergocalciferol Mecobalamin Menaquinone Panthotenic acid Phytomenadione Pyridoxine Riboflavin Thiamine Tocopherol 

148 Laws of Malaysia ACT 366 Warfarin; its salts Ximelagatran Yohimba, alkaloids of Zinc p-phenol sulphonate Zolazepam Zolmitriptan Zoledronic acid; its salts NOTE - (DD) refers to substances which are also controlled under the Dangerous Drugs Act 1952 (Act 234) SECOND SCHEDULE [Sections 2 and 7] Articles and Preparations exempted from the provisions of this Act: machine-spread plasters (whose only poisonous content is lead) surgical dressings adhesives antifouling compositions builders materials ceramics distempers electrical valves enamels explosives fillers photographic paper pipet plastics printers inks rubber fireworks glazes glue lacquer solvents lead pencils loading materials marking inks matches media culture medical device as defined under section 2 of the Medical Device Act 2012 [Act 737] microtitre plate motor lubricants and fuels 

Poisons 149 paints (other than pharmaceutical paints) pigments polishes propellants single homeopathic dilution preparation contain not more than one part per 10,000 parts of the poisons test strip varnishes THIRD SCHEDULE [Section 2] PSYCHOTROPIC SUBSTANCES 1. N-(Adamantanyl)pentyl-1H-indazolecarboxamide (APINACA) N-(Adamantanyl)(5-fluoropentyl)-1H-indazolecarboxamide (5F-APINACA) Alpha-Pyrrolidinohexanophenone (Alpha-PHP, PV-7) Amfepramone N-[(1S)(Aminocarbonyl)methylpropyl](cyclohexylmethyl) 1H-indazolecarboxamide (AB-CHMINACA) N-[(2S)Aminomethyloxobutanyl][(4-fluorophenyl) methyl]indazolecarboxamide (AB-FUBINACA) Aminorex Barbituric acid and other substances structurally derived therefrom; their compounds Benzphetamine N-Benzylpiperazine (BZP) 2-(4-bromo-2,5-dimethoxyphenyl)-N-(2-methoxybenzyl)ethanamine(25B- NBOMe) Brotizolam Buprenorphine Cathine 2-(4-chloro-2,5-dimethoxyphenyl)-N-(2-methoxybenzyl)ethanamine(25C- NBOMe) Clobazam Clotiazepam N-{[1-(Cyclohexylmethyl)-1H-indol-3yl]carbonyl}methyl-L-valinate (MDMB-CHMICA) Diazepam and other subtances structurally derivated from 1,4 -benzodiazepine except flumazenil and pirenzepine Etizolam Ethchlorvynol Ethylamphetamine 

150 Laws of Malaysia ACT 366 N-Ethyhexedrone (NEH, Hexen, Ethyl-Hex) Ethylone (3,4-Methylenedioxy-N-ethylcathinone) Ethylphenidate Fencamfamin Fenetylline Fenproporex 2-{[1-(4-Fluorpbutyl)-1H-indazolecarbonyl]amino}-3,3-dimethylbutanoate (4-F-MDMB-BINACA, 4F-ADB, 4F-MDMB-BUTINACA) (1-(5-fluoropentyl)-1H-indolyl](naphthaleneyl) methanone (AM-2201) [1-(5-fluoropentyl)-1H-indolyl](2,2,3,3-tetrametylcyclopropyl)methanone (XLR-11) Glutethimide 2-(4-iodo-2,5-dimethoxyphenyl)-N-(2-methoxybenzly)ethanamine(251-NBOMe) Lefetamine Lisdexamphetamine Mazindol Mecloqualone Mefenorex Mephedrone Meprobamate Mesocarb Methaqualone Methiopropamine (MPA) Methoxetamine (MXE) 3,4-Methylenedioxypyrovalerone(MDPV) 4-Methylethcathinone (4-MEC) Methyl 2-({[1-(5-fluoropentyl)-1H-indazol yl]carbonyl}amino)methylbutanoate (5F-AMB) 3-Methylmethcathinone (3-MMC) Methy (2S){[1-(5-fluoropentyl)-1H-indolecarbonyl]amino}-3,3- dimethylbutanoate (5F-MDMB-PICA) Methylone Methylphenidate Methyprylone Mitragynine Modafinil Naphtalenyl-(1-pentyl-1H-indolyl)methanone (JWH-018) Para-methylmethylaminorex (4,4’-DMAR) Pemoline Pentazocine Pentedrone (α-methylaminovalerophenone) Phencyclidine Phendimetrazine Phenmetrazine Phentermine Pipradrol Propylhexedrine 

Poisons 151 Pyrovalerone α-Pyrrolidinovalerophenone (α-PVP) Quinolinyl 1-(5-fluoropentyl)-1H-indolecarboxylate (5F-PB-22) Zipeprol Zolazepam Zolpidem Zopiclone 2. Any product which is registered under the Control of Drugs and Cosmetics Regulations 1984 [ P.U. (A) 223/1984 ] and contains any of the following substances: Alfentanil Dihydrocodeine Fentanyl Ketamine Methadone Morphine Oxycodone Pethidine Remifentanil Sufentanil 3. The following shall apply to all substances mentioned in this Schedule: (a) the analogues, homologues, compounds, intermediates, derivatives, isomers, esters, ethers and salts of the substances mentioned in this Schedule and other substances structurally derived; and (b) includes any preparation, solution, compound, mixture or natural substance containing such substances. 

152 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 366 POISONS ACT 1952 LIST OF AMENDMENTS Amending law Short title In force from Ord. 24/1956 The Poisons (Amendment) Ordinance 1956 221956 L.N. 332/1958 Federal Constitution (Modification of Laws) (Ordinances and Proclamations) Order 1958 131958 L.N. 234/1961 Poisons List Order 1961 201961 Act 15/1964 Poisons (Amendment) Act 1964 011964 P.U. (A) 459/1970 Poisons List Order 1970 011971 P.U. (B) 504/1972 Titles of Office—Notification 221972 P.U. (A) 95/1974 Poisons List (Amendment) Order 1974 221974 P.U. (A) 192/1974 The Poisons List (Amendment) Order 1974 (Corrigendum) 311974 Act 160 Malaysian Currency (Ringgit) Act 1975 291975 P.U. (A) 391/1975 Poisons List (Amendment) Order 1975 281975 Act 149 Pesticides Act 1974 151975; 011976; 011981; 011988 

 Poisons 153 Amending law Short title In force from P.U. (A) 138/1976 Poisons List (Amendment) Order 1976 071976 P.U. (A) 70/1978 Poisons List Order 1977 101978 P.U. (A) 157/1978 Modification of Laws (Dangerous Drugs and Poisons) (Extension and Modification) Order 1978 011978 P.U. (A) 237/1978 Poisons List (Amendment) Order 1978 181978 P.U. (A) 326/1978 Poisons List (Amendment) (No. 2) Order 1978 241978 P.U. (A) 118/1979 Poisons List (Amendment) Order 1979 081979 Act A480 Poisons (Amendment) Act 1980 011980 P.U. (A) 146/1980 Poisons List (Amendment) Order 1980 231980 P.U. (A) 357/1980 Subordinate Courts Act (Extension) Order 1980 011981 P.U. (A) 330/1981 Poisons List (Amendment) Order 1981 091981 P.U. (A) 236/1982 Poisons List (Amendment) Order 1982 101982 P.U. (A) 159/1983 Poisons List Order 1983 291983 Act A555 Poisons (Amendment) Act 1983 131983 P.U. (A) 566/1985 Poisons List (Amendment) Order 1985 271985 P.U. (A) 66/1986 Poisons List (Amendment) Order1985 (Corrigendum) 141986 

154 Laws of Malaysia ACT 366 Amending law Short title In force from P.U. (A) 48/1987 Poisons List (Amendment) Order 1987 301987 P.U. (A) 119/1987 Poisons List (Amendment) Order 1987 171987 P.U. (A) 223/1987 Poisons List (Amendment) (No. 2) Order 1987 (Corrigendum) 191987 P.U. (A) 403/1987 Poisons List (Amendment) (No. 3) Order 1987 111987 Act A695 Poisons (Amendment) Act 1988 191988 P.U. (A) 258/1988 Poisons List (Amendment) Order 1988 191988 P.U. (A) 259/1988 Poisons (Amendment of Fourth Schedule) Order 1988 191988 P.U. (A) 107/1989 Poisons (Amendment of Fourth Schedule) Order 1989 071989 P.U. (A) 413/1989 Poisons (Amendment of Third Schedule) Order 1989 151989 P.U. (A) 455/1989 Poisons List (Amendment) Order 1989 291989 P.U. (A) 210/1990 Poisons List (Amendment) Order 1990 271990 P.U. (A) 467/1991 Poisons (Amendment of Third Schedule) Order 1991 271991 P.U. (A) 114/1992 Poisons (Amendment of Second Schedule) Order 1992 271992 P.U. (A) 115/1992 Poisons List Order 1992 271992 P.U. (A) 98/1993 Poisons List Order 1993 231993 

 Poisons 155 Amending law Short title In force from P.U. (A) 64/1994 Poisons List (Amendment) Order 1994 251994 P.U. (A) 65/1994 Poisons List (Amendment) (No. 2) Order 1994 251994 P.U. (A) 301/1994 Poisons List (Amendment) (No. 3) Order1994 051994 P.U. (A) 106/1995 Poisons List (Amendment) Order 1995 141995 P.U. (A) 401/1995 Poisons List Amendment (No. 2) Order 1995 101995 P.U. (A) 188/1996 Poisons List (Amendment) Order 1996 261996 P.U. (A) 247/1996 Revision of Laws (Rectification of Poisons Act) Order 1996 011952; 011978 P.U. (A) 475/1996 Poisons List (Amendment) (No. 2) Order 1996 201996 P.U. (A) 640/1996 Poisons List (Amendment) (No. 3) Order 1996 011997 P.U. (A) 148/1997 Poisons List (Amendment) Order 1997 111997 P.U. (A) 244/1997 Poisons List (Amendment) (No. 2) Order 1997 201997 P.U. (A) 332/1997 Poisons List (Amendment) Order 1997 (Corrigendum) 291997 P.U. (A) 433/1997 Poisons List (Amendment) (No. 3) Order 1997 311997 P.U. (A) 458/1997 Poisons List (Amendment) Order 1995 (Corrigendum) 141997 

156 Laws of Malaysia ACT 366 Amending law Short title In force from P.U. (A) 35/1998 Poisons (Amendment of Fourth Schedule) Order 1988 (Corrigendum) 231998 P.U. (A) 328/1998 Poisons List (Amendment) Order 1998 041998 P.U. (A) 6/2000 Poisons List (Amendment) Order 2000 142000 P.U. (A) 60/2000 Poisons List (Amendment) Order 2000 252000 P.U. (A) 450/2000 Poisons List (Amendment) (No. 3) Order 2000 182000 P.U. (A) 365/2001 Poisons List (Amendment) Order 2001 072001 P.U. (A) 3/2003 Poisons List (Amendment) Order 2002 032003 P.U. (A) 39/2004 Poisons List (Amendment) Order 2004 232004 P.U. (A) 221/2004 Poisons List (Amendment) (No. 2) Order 2004 022004 P.U. (A) 42/2005 Poisons List (Amendment) Order 2005 032005 P.U. (A) 244/2005 Poisons List (Amendment) (No. 2) Order 2005 012005 P.U. (A) 297/2006 Poisons List (Amendment) (No. 2) Order 2006 182006 P.U. (A) 298/2006 Poisons (Amendment of Second Schedule) Order 2006 182006 P.U. (A) 334/2006 Poisons List (Amendment) (No. 2) Order 2006 082006 P.U. (A) 278/2008 Poisons (Amendment of Third Schedule) Order 2008 222008 

 Poisons 157 Amending law Short title In force from P.U. (A) 279/2008 Poisons (Amendment of Poisons List) Order 2008 222008 P.U. (A) 52/2009 Poisons (Amendment of Poisons List) Order 2009 102009 P.U. (A) 290/2009 Poisons (Amendment of Poisons List) Order 2009 072009 P.U. (A) 340/2010 Poisons (Amendment of Second Schedule) Order 2010 082010 P.U. (A) 341/2010 Poisons (Amendment of Poisons List) Order 2010 082010 P.U. (A) 6/2011 Poisons (Amendment of Poisons List) Order 2011 142011 P.U. (A) 109/2011 Poisons (Amendment of Poisons List) (No.2) Order 2011 152011 P.U. (A) 266/2011 Poisons (Amendment of Poisons List) (No.3) Order 2011 092011 P.U. (A) 257/2012 Poisons (Amendment of Poisons List) Order 2012 152012 P.U. (A) 104/2013 Poisons (Amendment of Poisons List) Order 2013 272013 P.U. (A) 136/2013 Poisons (Amendment of Third Schedule) Order 2010 122013 P.U. (A) 220/2013 Poisons (Amendment of Poisons List) (No.2) Order 2013 102013 P.U. (A) 72/2014 Poisons (Amendment of Poisons List) Order 2014 142014 P.U. (A) 116/2014 Poisons (Amendment of Poisons List) (No. 2) Order 2014 302014 

158 Laws of Malaysia ACT 366 Amending law Short title In force from P.U. (A) 17/2015 Poisons (Amendment of Poisons List) Order 2015 052015 P.U.(A) 130/2017 Poisons (Amendment of Poisons List) Order 2017 272017 P.U.(A) 153/2017 Poisons (Amendment of Poisons List) (No. 2) Order 2017 262017 P.U.(A) 180/2017 Poisons (Amendment of Third Schedule) Order 2017 202017 P.U.(A) 181/2017 Poisons (Amendment of Poisons List) (No.3) Order 2017 212017 P.U. (A) 426/2017 Poisons (Amendment of Third Schedule) (No.2) Order 2017 292017 P.U. (A) 179/2018 Poisons (Amendment of Third Schedule) Order 2018 012018 P.U. (A) 8/2019 Poisons (Amendment of Poisons List) Order 2019 102019 P.U. (A) 112/2019 Poisons (Amendment of Third Schedule) Order 2019 192019 P.U. (A) 165/2019 Poisons (Amendment of Poisons List) Order 2019- Corrigendum 142019 P.U. (A) 170/2019 Poisons (Amendment of Second Schedule) Order 2019 262019 P.U. (A) 202/2019 Poisons (Amendment of Poisons List) (No. 2) Order 2019 242019 P.U. (A) 207/2019 Poisons (Amendment of Poisons List) (No. 3) Order 2019 262019 

 Poisons 159 Amending law Short title In force from P.U. (A) 3/2020 Poisons (Amendment of Third Schedule) Order 2020 072020 P.U. (A) 257/2020 P.U. (A) 139/2021 P.U. (A) 332/2021 Poisons (Amendment of Poisons List) Order 2020 Poisons (Amendment of Third Schedule) Order 2020 Poisons (Amendment of Poisons List) Order 2021 022020 272021 102021 P.U. (A) 412/2021 Poisons (Amendment of Poisons List) (No.2) Order 2021 032021 P.U. (A) 309/2022 Poisons (Amendment of Poisons List) Order 2022 062022 Act A1666 Poisons (Amendment) Act 2022 012023 P.U. (A) 93/2023 Poisons (Amendment of Poisons List) Order 2023 012023 P.U. (A) 306/2023 Poisons (Amendment of Poisons List) (No. 2) Order 2023 112023 P.U. (A) 312/2023 Poisons (Amendment of Third Schedule) (No. 2) Order 2017- Corrigendum 292017 P.U. (A) 313/2023 Poisons (Amendment of Poisons List) Order 2019- Corrigendum 102019 P.U. (B) 509/2023 Poisons Act 1952 - Corrigendum 162023 P.U. (A) 125/2024 Poisons (Amendment of Poisons List) Order 2024 112024 

160 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 366 POISONS ACT 1952 LIST OF SECTIONS AMENDED Section Amending authority In force from 2 L.N. 332/1958 Act 160 Act A480 Act A555 Act A695 Act A1666 P.U.(B) 509/2023 131958 291975 011980 131983 191988 012023 162023 2A Ord. 24/1956 L.N. 332/1958 221956 131958 2B Ord. 24/1956 L.N. 332/1958 021956 131958 2C Ord. 24/1956 221956 3 Ord. 24/1956 L.N. 332/1958 Act 160 Act A1666 221956 131958 291975 012023 4 L.N. 332/1958 131958 4A Act A1666 012023 5 L.N. 332/1958 131958 7 Act A1666 012023 9 L.N. 332/1958 131958 10A Act A555 131983 

 Poisons 161 Section Amending authority In force from 11 L.N. 332/19 131958 15 Act A1666 012023 16 Act A1666 012023 17 Act A1666 012023 18 Act A1666 012023 19 Act A1666 012023 21 Act A1666 012023 22 L.N. 332/1958 Act A480 131958 011980 23 L.N. 332/1958 Act A1666 131958 012023 24 Act A1666 012023 25A Act A695 191988 26 Act A480 Act A1666 011980 012023 26A Act A1666 012023 27 Act A480 011980 28 Act A1666 012023 29 Act A480 011980 30 L.N. 332/1958 Act A1666 131958 012023 31 Act A1666 012023 31A Act A1666 012023 31B Act A1666 012023 31C Act A1666 012023 

162 Laws of Malaysia ACT 366 Section Amending authority In force from 31D Act A1666 012023 31E Act A1666 012023 31F Act A1666 012023 32 Act A1666 012023 32A Act A1666 Not yet in force 34A Act A1666 012023 34B Act A1666 012023 34C Act A1666 012023 35 Act A1666 012023 First Schedule L.N. 234/1961 Act 15/1964 P.U. (A) 459/1970 P.U. (B) 504/1972 P.U. (A) 95/1974 P.U. (A)192/1974 P.U. (A) 391/1975 Act 149 P.U. (A) 138/1976 P.U. (A) 70/1978 P.U. (A) 157/1978 P.U. (A) 237/1978 P.U. (A) 326/1978 P.U. (A) 118/1979 P.U. (A) 146/1980 P.U. (A) 357/1980 P.U. (A) 330/1981 P.U. (A) 236/1982 P.U. (A) 159/1983 P.U. (A) 566/1985 P.U. (A) 66/1986 P.U. (A) 48/1987 P.U. (A) 119/1987 P.U. (A) 223/1987 201961 011964 011971 221972 221974 311974 281975 151975; 011976; 011981; 011988; 071976 101978 011978 181978 241978 081979 231980 011981 091981 101982 291983 271985 141986 301987 171987 191987 

 Poisons 163 Section Amending authority In force from P.U. (A) 403/1987 P.U. (A) 258/1988 P.U. (A) 259/1988 P.U. (A) 107/1989 P.U. (A) 413/1989 P.U. (A) 455/1989 P.U. (A) 210/1990 P.U. (A) 467/1991 P.U. (A) 114/1992 P.U. (A) 115/1992 P.U. (A) 98/1993 P.U. (A) 64/1994 P.U. (A) 65/1994 P.U. (A) 301/1994 P.U. (A) 106/1995 P.U. (A) 401/1995 P.U. (A) 188/1996 P.U. (A) 247/1996 P.U. (A) 475/1996 P.U. (A) 640/1996 P.U. (A) 148/1997 P.U. (A) 244/1997 P.U. (A) 332/1997 P.U. (A) 433/1997 P.U. (A) 458/1997 P.U. (A) 35/1998 P.U. (A) 328/1998 P.U. (A) 385/1998 P.U. (A) 6/2000 P.U. (A) 60/2000 P.U. (A) 450/2000 P.U. (A) 365/2001 P.U. (A) 3/2003 P.U. (A) 39/2004 P.U. (A) 221/2004 P.U. (A) 42/2005 P.U. (A) 244/2005 P.U. (A) 297/2006 P.U. (A) 335/2006 P.U. (A) 279/2008 P.U. (A) 52/2009 P.U. (A) 290/2009 P.U. (A) 341/2010 P.U. (A) 6/2011 111987 191988 191988 071989 151989 291989 271990 271991 271992 271992 231993 251994 251994 051994 141995 101995 261996 011952; 011978; 201996 011997 111997 201997 291997 311997 141997 231998 041998 301998 142000 252000 182000 072001 032003 232004 022004 032005 012005 182006 082006 222008 102009 072009 082010 142011 

164 Laws of Malaysia ACT 366 Section Amending authority In force from P.U. (A) 109/2011 P.U. (A) 266/2011 P.U. (A) 257/2012 P.U. (A) 104/2013 P.U. (A) 220/2013 P.U. (A) 72/2014 P.U. (A) 116/2014 P.U.(A) 17/2015 P.U.(A) 130/2017 P.U.(A) 153/2017 P.U.(A) 220/2016 P.U. (A) 181/2017 P.U. (A) 8/2019 P.U. (A) 202/2019 P.U. (A) 207/2019 P.U. (A) 257/2020 P.U. (A) 332/2021 P.U.(A) 412/2021 P.U. (A) 309/2022 P.U. (A) 93/2023 P.U. (A) 306/2023 P.U. (A) 313/2023 P.U. (A) 125/2024 152011 092011 152012 272013 102013 142014 302014 052015 272017 262017 042016 212017 102019 242019 262019 022020 102021 032021 062022 012023 112023 102019 112024 Second Schedule P.U. (A) 114/1992 P.U. (A) 475/1996 P.U. (A) 298/2006 P.U. (A) 340/2010 P.U. (A) 170/2019 271992 201996 182006 082010 262019 Third Schedule P.U. (A) 413/1989 P.U. (A) 467/1991 P.U. (A) 365/2001 P.U. (A) 3/2003 P.U. (A) 334/2006 P.U. (A) 278/2008 P.U. (A) 136/2013 P.U. (A) 180/2017 P.U. (A) 426/2017 P.U. (A) 179/2018 P.U. (A) 112/2019 P.U. (A) 3/2020 P.U. (A) 139/2021 Act A1666 P.U. (A) 312/2023 151989 271991 072001 032003 082006 222008 122013 202017 292017 012018 192019 072020 272021 012023 292017 

 Poisons 165 Section Amending authority In force from Fourth Schedule Act A695 191988