LAWS OF MALAYSIA ONLINE VERSION OF UPDATED TEXT OF REPRINT Act 234 DANGEROUS DRUGS ACT 1952 As at 26 November 2025 This text is ONLY AN UPDATED TEXT of the Dangerous Drugs Act 1952 by the Attorney General’s Chambers. Unless and until reprinted pursuant to the powers of the Commissioner of Law Revision under subsection 14(1) of the Revision of Laws Act 1968 [Act 1], this text is NOT AN AUTHENTIC TEXT . 

2 DANGEROUS DRUGS ACT 1952 First enacted … … … 1952 (Ord. No. 30 of 1952) Revised … … … 1980 (Act 234 w.e.f 17 July 1980) English text to be authoritative … … … P.U. (B) 173/2002 Latest amendment made by P.U. (A) 416/2025 which came into operation on … … … 26 November 2025 PREVIOUS REPRINTS First Reprint … … … … … 2000 Second Reprint … … … … … 2006 

3 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 234 DANGEROUS DRUGS ACT 1952 ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS Section 1. Short title PART I INTERPRETATION AND DEFINITIONS 2. Interpretation 3. Appointment of Drug Enforcement Officers PART II CONTROL OF RAW OPIUM, COCA LEAVES, POPPY-STRAW AND CANNABIS 4. Restriction on importation of raw opium, coca leaves, poppy -straw and cannabis 5. Restriction on exportation of raw opium, coca leaves, po ppy-straw and cannabis 6. Restriction on possession of raw opium, coca leaves, poppy -straw and cannabis 6A. (Deleted) 6B. Restriction on planting or cultivation of certain plants 7. Power to regulate the production of and dealing in raw opium, coca leaves, poppy-straw and cannabis 

4 Laws of Malaysia ACT 234 PART III CONTROL OF PREPARED OPIUM, CANNABIS AND CANNABIS RESIN Section 8. Application to cannabis and cannabis resin 9. Possession, etc., of prepared opium 10. Use of premises, possession of utensils and consumption of opium PART IV CONTROL OF CERTAIN DANGEROUS DRUGS 11. Extent of application of Part IV 12. Restriction on import and export of certain dangerous drugs 13. Keeping or using premises for unlawful administration 14. Administration to others 15. Self administration 16. Control of manufacture and sale of certain dangerous drugs 17. Prohibition of trade, etc., in new drugs, and power to apply Part IV with or without modifications to certain drugs PART V CONTROL OF EXTERNAL TRADE 18. Interpretation 19. Export of dangerous drugs 20. Import of dangerous drugs 21. Dangerous drugs in transit 22. Removal licences in transit 23. Drugs not to be tampered with 24. The diversion of dangerous drugs in transit 25. Exemption of preparation in the possession of travellers 

Dangerous Drugs 5 PART VA Section 25A-25P. (Deleted) PART VI ANCILLARY AND GENERAL PROVISIONS 26. Interpretation 27. Powers of inspection and seizure 27A. Power to intercept communication 28. Obstruction of inspection or search 29. Indemnity 30. Seizure and forfeiture of drugs, etc. 30A. Things seized may be delivered to the owner or other person 31. Power of arrest and seizure 31A. Examination of arrested person by a medical officer 31B. Procedure where investigation cannot be completed within twenty -four hours by an officer of customs 32. False declaration 33. Abetments and attempts punishable as offences 34. Abetting or procuring the commission of an offence abroad 35. Liability of officers of a company and employers and servants 36. Burden of proof 37. Presumptions 37A. Application of presumptions 37B. Admission of statements in evidence 38. Ship or aircraft used for unlawful import or export 38A. Powers of the Court in respect of drug dependants below the age of eighteen 38B. Powers of the Court in respect of persons found guilty under section 15 39. General penalty 

6 Laws of Malaysia ACT 234 Section 39A. Increased penalty where the subject matter is the prescribed amount of certain dangerous drugs 39B. Trafficking in dangerous drugs 39C. Increased penalty where person has prior admissions or convictions 40. Protection of informers 40A. Evidence of agent provocateur admissible 41. Jurisdiction 41A. Special provisions relating to transmission of a case to, and trial by, the High Court 41B. No bail to be granted in respect of certain offences 42. Power to conduct prosecutions 42A. Rewards 43. Licences, permits, etc., may be subject to conditions 44. Power of Minister to delegate powers and functions 45. Power of Minister to e xempt certain drugs and institutions from certain provisions of the Act 45A. Power of the Minister to vary First Schedule 46. Act not to derogate from other statutory or other legal provisions and powers 47. Regulations 48. Drug Enforcement officers to be deemed public servants 49. Action of officers no offence 50. Repeal FIRST SCHEDULE SECOND SCHEDULE THIRD SCHEDULE 

7 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 234 DANGEROUS DRUGS ACT 1952 An Act to make further and better provision for the regulating of the importation, exportation, manufacture, sale, and use of opium and of certain other dangerous drugs and substances, to make special provision relating to the jurisdiction of courts in respect of offences thereunder and their trial, and for purposes connected therewith. [Peninsular Malaysia—1 November 1952, L.N. 554/1952; Sabah and Sarawak—1 June 1978, P.U. (A) 157/1978] Short title 1. This Act may be cited as the Dangerous Drugs Act 1952. PART I INTERPRETATION AND DEFINITIONS Interpretation 2. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires— “aircraft” includes every description of craft which may be used for the conveyance of passengers or goods by air; 

8 Laws of Malaysia ACT 234 “cannabis” means any part of any plant of the genus Cannabis from which there is found to be present resin irrespective of its quantity, and by whatever name the plant may be designated; “cannabis resin” means the separated resin, whether crude or purified, obtained from any plant of the genus Cannabis; “coca leaves” means the leaves of any plan t of the genus of the Erythroxylaceae from which cocaine can be extracted either directly or by chemical transformation; “Commission” means the Commission on Narcotic Drugs of the Economic and Social Council of the United Nations; “conveyance” includes s hip, train, vehicle, aircraft, or any other means of transport by which persons or goods can be carried; “corresponding law” means any law stated in a certificate purporting to be issued by or on behalf of the Government of any country or territory to be a law providing for the control and regulation in that country or territory of the manufacture, sale, use, export, and import of drugs and substances in accordance with the Geneva Convention (No. 1) or of the Geneva Convention (No. 2) or of the Hague Conve ntion or of the Protocol or of the Single Convention and any stateme nt in any such certificate (or in any official copy thereof) as to the effect of the law mentioned in the certificate (or in any official copy thereof), or any statement in any such certif icate (or in any official copy thereof) that any facts constitute an offence against that law, shall be conclusive; “dangerous drug” means any drug or substance which is for the time being comprised in the First Schedule; “Drug Enforcement Officer” means a Drug Enforcement Officer appointed under section 3 of this Act; “export”, with its grammatical variations and cognate expressions, in relation to Malaysia, means to take or cause to be taken out of Malaysia by land, air or water, otherwise than in transit; 

Dangerous Drugs 9 “Geneva Convention (No. 1)” means the Convention concluded at the Second Opium Conference held at Geneva for the purpose of completing and strengthening the Hague Convention and signed at Geneva on 19 February 1925; “Geneva Convention (No. 2)” means the Convention concluded at a Conference held at Geneva for the pur pose of supplementing the Hague Convention and the Geneva Convention (No. 1) and signed at Geneva on 13 July 1931; “Hague Convention” means the International Opium Convention signed at the Hague on 23 January 1912; “import”, with its grammatical variations and cognate expressions, in relation to Malaysia, means to bring, or to cause to be brought into Malaysia by land, air or water, otherwise than in transit; “in transit” means taken or sent from any country and brought into Malaysia by land, air or wate r (whether or not landed or transhipped in Malaysia) for the sole purpose of being carried to another country either by the same or another conveyance; “licensed pharmacist” means a regis tered pharmacist who is the holder of a Type A Licence issued under the Poisons Act 1952 [Act 366]; “manufacture”, in relation to a dangerous drug, includes— (a) the making, producing, compounding and assembling of the drug; (b) the making, producing, compound ing and assembling a preparation of the drug; (c) the refining or trans formation of the drug into another dangerous drug; and (d) any process done in the course of the foregoing activities; 

10 Laws of Malaysia ACT 234 “medicinal opium” means raw opium which has undergone the processes necessary to adapt it for medicinal use in accordance with the requirements of the British Pharmacopoeia, whether in powder form or granulated or otherwise, or mixed with neutral materials; “Minister” means the Minister charged with the responsibility for medical and health services; “offence under this Act” includes an off ence under any regulation made under this Act; “opium poppy” means any plant from which morphine may be produced; “Peninsular Malaysia” has the meaning assigned thereto in section 3 of the Interpretation Acts 1948 and 1967 [ Act 388 ], and includes the *Federal Territory; “poppy-straw” means all parts except the seeds of the opium poppy, after mowing; “premises” includes any house, shop, store, room, cubicle, shed, conveyance, or any place whether open or enclosed; “prepared opium” means the substance commonly called candu and means opium prepared or re -prepared so as to be suitable for smoking or consumption otherwise and includes dross and any other residues remaining after such opium has been smoked; “Protocol” means the Protocol on Narcotic Drugs signed at Lake Success, New York, on 11 December 1946; “raw opium” means the coagulated juice obtained from any plant from which morphine may be produced, whatever its content of morphine and in whatever form the coagulated juice is, but does not include medicinal opium; *NOTE—Federal Territories of Kuala Lumpur and Labuan are included –see P.U. (A) 220/1985. For Putrajaya see section 1 of Act A1095. 

Dangerous Drugs 11 “registered dentist” means a dental practitioner as defined in subsection 2(1) of the Dental Act 1971 [Act 51]; “registered dental surgeon” means a dental surgeon as defi ned in subsection 2(1) of the Dental Act 1971; “registered medical practitioner” means a medical practitioner registered under the Medical Act 1971 [Act 50]; “registered pharmacist” means a pharmacist registered under any written law relating to the regi stration of pharmacists, and includes, in Sabah or Sarawak, a person holding a qualification recognized by the Director of Medical Services in Sabah or Sarawak, as the case may be, as a sufficient guarantee of the possession of the requisite knowledge and skill for the efficient practice of the profession of a pharmacist; “ship” includes every description of ship, boat or craft used in navigation, whether propelled by oars or otherwise, or used for the carriage or storage of goods; “Single Convention” mea ns the Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs signed at New York on 30 March 1961; “subordinate court” has the meaning assigned thereto in section 3 of the Courts of Judicature Act 1964 [Act 91]; “syringe” means any instrument suitable for the administratio n of hypodermic injections; “trafficking” includes the doing of any of the following acts, that is to say, manufacturing, importing, exporting, keeping, concealing, buying, selling, giving, receiving, storing, administering, transporting, carrying, sendin g, delivering, procuring, supplying or distributing any dangerous drug otherwise than under the authority of this Act or the regulations made under the Act; “veterinary surgeon” has the meaning assigned th ereto in the Veterinary Surgeons Act 1974 [Act 147]; 

12 Laws of Malaysia ACT 234 “written law” has the meaning assigned thereto in the Interpretation Acts 1948 and 1967. Appointment of Drug Enforcement Officers 3. The Yang di-Pertuan Agong may appoint such persons as he may think fit to be Drug Enforcement Officers for the purp oses of this Act. PART II CONTROL OF RAW OPIUM, COCA LEAVES, POPPY-STRAW AND CANNABIS Restriction on importation of raw opium, coca leaves, poppy - straw and cannabis 4. (1) No person shall import into Malaysia any raw opium, coca leaves, poppy-straw or cannabis except under and in accordance with the authorization of the Minister and into such ports or places as may be prescribed by such authorization. (2) Any person who contravenes this section shall be guilty of an offence against this Act, and sh all be liable on conviction to *imprisonment for a term not exceeding five years and not less than three years. Restriction on exportation of raw opium, coca leaves, poppy - straw and cannabis 5. (1) No person shall export from Malaysia any raw opium, c oca leaves, poppy-straw or cannabis except under and in accordance with the authorization of the Minister and from such ports or places as may be prescribed by such authorization. *NOTE—Previously “a fine not exceeding ten thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding five years or to both such fine and imprisonment” –see Dangerous Drugs (Amendment) Act 1973 [Act A194]. 

Dangerous Drugs 13 (2) If at any time the importation of raw opium, coca leaves, poppy-straw or cannabis into any country or territory is prohibited or restricted by the laws of that country or territory, there shall, while that prohibition or restriction is in force, be attached to every authorization issued under this Part authorizing the exportation of raw opium, coca leaves, poppy -straw or cannabis from Malaysia such conditions as appear to the Minister necessary for preventing or restricting, as the case may be, the exportation of raw opium, coca leaves, poppy -straw or cannabis from Malaysia to that country or territory during such time as the importation of raw opium, coca leaves, poppy -straw or cannabis into that country or territory is so prohibited or restricted, and any such authorizations i ssued before the said prohibition or restriction c ame into force shall, if the Minister so directs, be deemed to be subject to the like conditions. (3) Any person who contravenes this section or of any condition attached or applicable to any authorization under subsection (2) shall be guilty of an offen ce against this Act and shall be liable on conviction to *imprisonment for a term not exceeding five years and not less than three years. Restriction on possession of raw opium, coca leaves, poppy -straw and cannabis 6. Any person who keeps or has in his possession, custody or control any raw opium, coca leaves, poppy -straw or cannabis or the seeds of the plants from which they may be obtained either directly or indirectly, except under and in accordance with an authorization such as is referred to in sections 4 and 5 or with any regulation made under section 7 thereof, shall be guilty of an offence against this Act and liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding **twenty thousand ringgit or to imprisonmen t for a term not exceeding five years or to both. *NOTE—Previously “a fine not exceeding ten thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding five years or to both such fine and imprisonment” –see Dangerous Drugs (Amendment) Act 1973 [Act A194]. **NOTE—Previously “ten thousand ringgit”–see Dangerous Drugs (Amendment) Act 1986 [Act A659]. 

14 Laws of Malaysia ACT 234 6A. (Deleted by Act A553). Restriction on planting or cultivation of certain plants 6B. (1) No person shall— (a) either on his own behalf or on behalf of any other person, plant or cultivate any plant from which raw opium, coca leaves, poppy -straw or can nabis may be obtained either directly or indirectly; (b) allow any plant, from which raw opium, coca leaves, poppy-straw or cannabis may be obtained either directly or indirectly, to be planted or cultivated b y some other person on land owned or occupied by h im or in any receptacle on such land; or (c) allow any plant, from which raw opium, coca leaves, poppy-straw or cannabis may be obtained either directly or indirectly, planted or cultivated by some other person on land owned or occupied by him or in any recep tacle on such land, to remain on such land or in such receptacle. (2) Nothing in this section shall be construed to prevent the Minister from authorizing any public officer to plant or cultivate any plant, from which raw opium, coca leaves, poppy -straw or cannabis may be obtained either directly or indirectly, in places and on such terms and conditions as may be specified in such authorization for research, educational, experimental or medical purposes. (3) Any person who contravenes this section shall b e guilty of an offence against this Act and shall be punished on conviction with imprisonment for life and with whipping of not less than six strokes. (4) Any person found on land or who occupies land on which, or any person found in possession of any re ceptacle in which, any plant, from which raw opium, coca leaves, poppy -straw or cannabis may be obtained either directly or indirectly, is planted or cultivated shall be 

Dangerous Drugs 15 presumed, until the contrary is proved, to be the person who planted or cultivated such plant. Power to regulate the production of and dealing in raw opium, coca leaves, poppy-straw and cannabis 7. (1) The Minister may make regulations for prohibiting, controlling and restricting the cu ltivation, production, possession, sale and distri bution of raw opium, coca leaves, poppy -straw or cannabis. (2) All such regulations shall be made in accordance with section 47. PART III CONTROL OF PREPARED OPIUM, CANNABIS AND CANNABIS RESIN Application to cannabis and cannabis resin 8. In this Part any reference to prepared opium or opium shall be construed as including a reference to cannabis, cannabis resin and substances of which such resin forms the base. Possession, etc., of prepared opium 9. (1) No person shall— (a) import into or export from Malaysia; or (b) keep or have in his possession, custody or control; or (c) manufacture, sell or otherwise deal in, any prepared opium. 

16 Laws of Malaysia ACT 234 (2) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence against this Act and shall be liable on con viction to a fine not exceeding *twenty thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding five years or to both. Use of premises, possession of utensils and consumption of opium 10. (1) If any person— (a) being the owner or occupier of any pre mises permits those premises to be used for the purpose of making prepared opium or for the sale or the smoking or consumption otherwise of prepared opium; or (b) is concerned in the management of any premises used for any such purposes as aforesaid, he shall be guilty of an offence against this Act and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding **ten thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding **three years or to both. (2) If any person— (a) has in his possession any pipe or other utensil for use in connection with the smoking of prepared opium, or any utensil used in the preparation of opium for smoking or consumption otherwise; or (b) smokes or otherwise consumes prepared opium or frequents any place or places used for the purpose of smoking or otherwise consuming prepared opium, *NOTE—Previously “ten thousand ringgit”–see Dangerous Drugs (Amendment) Act 1986 [Act A659]. **NOTE—Previously “five thousand ringgit” and “two years imprisonment” –see Dangerous Drugs (Amendment) Act 1972 [Act A112]. 

Dangerous Drugs 17 he shall be guilty of an offence against this Act and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding *five thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding *two years or to both. (3) In this section “consume” with its grammatical variations means eat, chew, smoke, swallow, drink, inhale, or introduce into the body in any manner or by any means whatsoever. PART IV CONTROL OF CERTAIN DANGEROUS DRUGS Extent of application of Part IV 11. (1) This Part applies to dangerous drugs listed in Parts III, IV and V of the First Schedule. (2) If it appears to the Minister that any other derivative of cocaine or morphine or of any salts of cocai ne or morphine or of any other alkaloid of opium o r any other drug of whatever kind or any substance whatever is or is likely to be productive, if improperly used, or is capable of being converted into a substance which is, or is likely to be productive, if improperly used, of ill effects substantially of the same character or nature as or analogous to those produced by cocaine or morphine, the Minister may by order declare that this Part shall apply to that derivative or alkaloid or other drug or that substance in the same manner as it applies to the drug s mentioned in subsection (1). (3) The Minister may by order amend Parts III, IV and V of the First Schedule by including therein any drug or substance in respect of which an order has been made under subsection (2) or by removing therefrom any drug or su bstance which has been exempted *NOTE—Previously “two thousand ringgit” and “one year imprisonment” –see Dangerous Drugs (Amendment) Act 1972 [Act A112]. 

18 Laws of Malaysia ACT 234 from the provisions of this Act by an order or regulations made under section 45. Restriction on import and export of certain dangerous drugs 12. (1) No person shall exc ept under the authorization of the Minister— (a) import into Malaysia any dangerous drug specified in Parts III, IV and V of the First Schedule; or (b) export from Malaysia any dangerous drug specified in Parts III and IV of the First Schedule. (2) No person shall have in his possession, custody or control an y dangerous drug to which this Part applies unless he is authorized to be in possession, custody or control of such drug or is deemed to be so authorized under this Act or the regulations made thereunder. (3) Any person who contravenes subsection (2) of this section shall be guilty of an offence against this Act and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding *one hundred thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding **five years or to both. (4) Any person who is a public office r employed at any prison, rehabilitation centre, police lock-up or place of detention shall, on his conviction under subsection (3) for contravening subsection (2), be liable to whipping of not more than th ree strokes in addition to the punishment to which he is liable under subsection (3). Keeping or using premises for unlawful administration 13. Any person who— (a) being the occupier of any premises, and not being a registered medical practitioner or a registered dentist, keeps *NOTE—Previously “twenty thousand ringgit”–see Dangerous Drugs (Amendment) Act 1998 [Act A1025]. **NOTE—Previously “three years”–see Dangerous Drugs (Amendment) Act 1973 [Act A194]. 

Dangerous Drugs 19 or uses such premises for the purpose of the administration of any dangerous drug specified in Parts III and IV of the First Schedule to a human being; or (b) being the owner or occupier of any premises permits such premises to be used for the purpose of the administration of any such dangerous drug to a human being by any person other than a registered medical practitioner or registered dentist or a person acting under the directions of a registered medical practitioner or registered dentist; or (c) being the owner or occupier of any pre mises permits such premises to be used for the purpose of the smoking or consumption otherwise of any such dangerous drug by a human being, shall be guilty of an offence against this Act, and shall be liab le on conviction to a fine not exceeding ten thous and ringgit or to imprisonment for a period not exceeding *five years or to both. Administration to others 14. (1) Any person who administers any dangerous drug specified in Parts III and IV of the First Schedule to any other person shall be guilty of an offence against this Act and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding ten thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding three years or to both. (2) Nothing in this section shall be deemed to render unlawful the administration of any such drug by or under the directions of a registered medical practitioner or a registered dentist or a medical or dental officer of any visiting force lawfully present in Malaysia who is resident in Malaysia on full pay and acting in the course of his duty. *NOTE—Previously “three years”–see Dangerous Drugs (Amendment) Act 1973 [Act A194]. 

20 Laws of Malaysia ACT 234 Self administration 15. (1) Any person who— (a) consumes, administers to himself or suffers any other person, contrary to section 14 to administer to him any dangerous drug specified in Parts III and IV of the First Schedule; or (b) is found in any premises kept or used for any of the purposes specified in section 13 in order that any such dangerous drug may be administered to or smoked or otherwise consumed by him, shall be guilty of an offence against this Act and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding five thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding two years. (2) For the purpose of this section, “consumes” includes eat, chew, smoke, swallow, drink, inhale or introduce into the body in any manner or by any means whatsoever. Control of manufacture and sale of certain dangerous drugs 16. (1) For the purpose of preventing the improper use of the dangerous drugs specified in Parts III, IV and V of the First Schedule, the Minister may make regulations to provi de for controlling the manufacture, sale, possession, and distribution of such drugs, and in particular, but without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power, for— (a) prohibiting the manufacture of any such drug except on premises licensed for the purpose and subject to any conditions specified in the licence; (b) prohibiting the manufacture, sale, or distribution of any such drug except by persons licensed or otherwise authorized under the regulations and subject to any conditions specified in the licence or authority; 

Dangerous Drugs 21 (c) regulating the issue by registered medical practitioners, registered dentists, and veterinary surgeons of prescriptions containing any such drug, and the dispensing of any such prescriptions; (d) requiring persons engaged in the manufacture , sale or distribution of any such drug to keep such books and to furnish such information, either in writing or otherwise, as may be prescribed; and (e) prescribing the marking of packages, bottles or containers in which any such drug is supplied. (2) The regulations made under this section may provide for authorizing any licensed pharmacist in accordance with any written law relating to poisons from time to time in force in Malaysia or any part thereof— (a) to manufacture in the ordinary course of his retail business any preparation, admixture, or extract of any dangerous drug specified in Parts III, IV and V of the First Schedule; and (b) to carry on the business of retailing, dispensing, or compounding any such drug, subject in each case to the power of the Mi nister to withdraw the authorization in the case of a person who has been convicted of an offence against this Act, and who cannot, in the opinion of the Minister properly be allowed to carry on the busines s of manufacturing, selling, or distributing, as t he case may be, any such drug. (3) Nothing contained in any regulation made under this section shall be construed as authorizing the sale, or the keeping of an open shop for the retailing, dispensing, or compounding of poisons by any person who is not du ly qualified in that behalf under, or otherwise than in accordance with, any written law relating to poisons from time to time in force in Malaysia or any part thereof, or as derogating 

22 Laws of Malaysia ACT 234 from the said Act, for prohibiting, restricting, or regulating the sale of poisons. (4) All such regulations shall be made in accordance with section 47. Prohibition of trade, etc., in new drugs, and power to apply Part IV with or without modifications to certain drugs 17. (1) It shall not be lawful for any person to trade in, or manufacture for the purposes of trade, any products obtained from any of the phenanthrene alkaloids of opium or from the ecgonine alkaloids of the coca leaf, not being a product which was on 30 March 1961, being used for medical or scientifi c purposes or not being a substance specified in the First Schedule: Provided that if the Minister is at any time satisfied as respects any such product that it is of medical or scientific value, the Minister may by order direct that this subsection shall cease to apply to that product. If any person acts in contravention of this subsection, he shall be guilty of an offence against this Act, and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding ten tho usand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding *five years or to both. (2) If it is made to appear to the Minister that a decision with respect to any such product as is mentioned in subsection (1) has in pursuance of article 3 of the Single Convention been communicated by the Secretary General of the United Nations Organization to the parties to the said Convention, the Minister may by order, as the case requires, either declare that this Part shall apply to that product in the same manner as they apply to the drugs mentioned in subsection 11 (1) or apply this Part to that product with such modifications as may be specified in the order. *NOTE—Previously “three years”–see Dangerous Drugs (Amendment) Act 1973 [Act A194]. 

Dangerous Drugs 23 (3) The Minister may by order make, in the First Schedule, any alterations incidental to the inclusion of any such drug or substance in such Schedule. PART V CONTROL OF EXTERNAL TRADE Interpretation 18. In this Part— “Convention” means the Single Convention; “diversion certificate” means a certificate issued by the competent authority of a country throu gh which a dangerous drug passes in transit, authorizing the diversion of such drug to a country other than that specified as the country of ultimate destination in the export authorization, and containing all the particulars required to be included in an export authorization, together with the name of th e country from which the consignment was originally exported; “export authorization” means an authorization issued by a competent authority in a country from which a dangerous drug is exported; “import au thorization” means a licence, issued by a competen t authority in a country into which it is intended to import dangerous drugs. Export of dangerous drugs 19. (1) Upon the production of an import authorization or an approval of import certificate duly issued by the competent authority in any country, it shall be lawful for the Minister to issue an export authorization in the Form B set out in the Second Schedule in respect of any drug referred to in the import authorization to any person who is named as the exporter in such import authorization, and is , under 

24 Laws of Malaysia ACT 234 this Act, otherwise lawfully entitled to export such drug from Malaysia. The export authorization shall be prepared in triplicate and two copies shall be issued to the exporter who shall send one copy with the drug to which it refers when such drug is exported. The Minister shall send the third copy direct to the appropriate authority of the country of ultimate destination. Where the intended exportation is to a country which is not a party to the Co nvention, it shall not be necessary to produce an import authorization as aforesaid. In all cases it shall be in the absolute discretion of the Minister to issue or refuse an export authorization, as he may see fit. (2) No dangerous drug shall be exported from Malaysia unless the consignor is in possess ion of a valid and subsisting export authorization relating to such drug granted under this Act. (3) At the time of exportation of any dangerous drug the exporter shall produce to such officer as the Mini ster may appoint, the dangerous drug, the export a uthorization relating thereto, and such other evidence as such officer may require to satisfy him that the drug is being lawfully exported to the place and person named in the authorization which refers to it. (4) Any person who shall export any dangerou s drug from Malaysia except in pursuance of and in accordance with this Act and the terms and conditions of any authorization or licence granted under this Act in respect of such export shall be guilty of a n offence against this Act, and shall be liable on conviction to *imprisonment for a term not exceeding five years and not less than three years. Import of dangerous drugs 20. (1) An import authorization in the Form C set out in the Second Schedule permitting the importation into Malaysia of any dang erous drug specified therein may be granted by the Minister, subject to such conditions as he shall deem fit, to any person who may lawfully *NOTE—Previously “fine not exceeding ten thousand dollars or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding three years or to both such fine and imprisonment”–see Dangerous Drugs (Amendment) Act 1973 [Act A194]. 

Dangerous Drugs 25 import such drug and such conditions shall be endorsed upon the import authorization. (2) Where an import authori zation is issued in pursuance of subsection (1), the Minister shall also issue, in relation to the dangerous drug intended to be imported, an approval of import certificate in the Form A set out in the Second Schedule which shall be forwarded by the intend ing importer to the person from whom the drug is to be obtained. When the importer to whom an import authorization is issued under this section intends to import the drug or drugs to which such authorizatio n relates in more than one consignment, a separate approval of import certificate shall be issued to him in respect of each such consignment. (3) No dangerous drug shall be imported into Malaysia unless the person to whom the drug is consigned is in possession of a valid and subsisting import authorization granted in pursuance of this section. (4) Every dangerous drug imported into Malaysia from a country which is a party to the Convention shall be accompanied by a valid and subsisting export authorization or diversion certificate. (5) Any person who shall import any dangerous drug into Malaysia except in pursuance of and in accordance with this Act and the terms and conditions of any approval, authorization or licence granted under this Act in respect of such import shall be guilty of an offence agai nst this Act, and shall be liable on conviction to *imprisonment for a term not exceeding five years and not less than three years. Dangerous drugs in transit 21. (1) No person shall bring any dangerou s drug to Malaysia in transit unless— *NOTE—Previously “fine not exceeding ten thousand dollars or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding three years or to both such fine and imprisonment”–see Dangerous Drugs (Amendment) Act 1973 [Act A194]. 

26 Laws of Malaysia ACT 234 (a) the drug is in course of transit from a country from which it may lawfully be exported, to another country into which such drug may lawfully be imported; and (b) except where the drug comes from a country not a party to the Convention, it is accompanied by a valid and s ubsisting export authorization or diversion certificate, as the case may be. (2) Where any dangerous drug in transit is accompanied by an export authorization or diversion certificate and there are reason able grounds for believing that such authorization or certificate is false, or that it has been obtained by fraud or wilful misrepresentation of a material particular, it shall be lawful for the Minister, or any officer authorized by him in that behalf, to seize and detain the drug to which such authoriza tion or certificate relates. Upon being satisfied that such authorization or certificate is valid or has not been obtained by fraud or misrepresentation as aforesaid, the Minister or such officer shall release the drug. (3) Where the dangerous drug in tr ansit is not accompanied by an export authorization or diversion certificate by reason of the fact that the drug comes from a country not a party to the Convention and there are reasonable grounds for believing that such drug is being conveyed in an unlawf ul manner or for an unlawful purpose or is in course of transit for the purpose of being imported into another country in contravention of the laws of that country, it shall be lawful for the Minister, or a ny officer authorized by him in that behalf, to seize and detain the drug. (4) Where a dangerous drug brought into Malaysia in transit is landed, or transhipped in Malaysia, it shall be stored and dealt with as the Minister may direct and shall be moved only under and in accordance with a removal licence granted in pursuance of section 22. (5) Nothing in this section shall be deemed to apply to any dangerous drug in transit by post or in transit by air if the aircraft passes over Malaysia without landin g, or to such quantities of dangerous drugs as may reasonably form part of the medical stores of any ship or aircraft. 

Dangerous Drugs 27 (6) Any person who brings any dangerous drug into Malaysia in transit otherwise than in accordance with this section shall be guilty of an offence against this Act, and shall be liable o n conviction to a fine not exceeding *twenty thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding *five years or to both. Removal licences in transit 22. (1) No person shall— (a) in any way move any such drug from the conveyance by which it is brought into Malaysia in transit; or (b) in any way move any such drug in Malaysia at any time after removal from such conveyance, except under and in accordance with a licence (in the Form D set out in the Second Schedule and in this Act referred to as a “re moval licence”) issued by the Minister. In all cases it shall be in the absolute discretion of the Minister to issue or refuse a removal licence as he shall deem fit. (2) No removal licence for the transf er of any such drug to any conveyance for removal out of Malaysia shall be issued unless and until a valid and subsisting export authorization or diversion certificate relating to it is produced to the Minister save that where the drug has come from a country not a party to the Convention this subsection shall not apply. (3) This section shall not apply to dangerous drugs in transit by post. (4) Notwithstanding this section the Minister may in his absolute discretion authorize the temporary removal for safe custody of such quantities of dangerous drugs as may reasonably form part of the *NOTE—Previously “ten thousand ringgit” and “three years imprisonment” –see Dangerous Drugs (Amendment) Act 1973 [Act A194]. 

28 Laws of Malaysia ACT 234 medical stores of any ship or aircraft on such terms and subject to such conditions as he shall think fit. (5) Any person who contravenes this section shall be guilty of an offence against this Act, and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding *twenty thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding five years or to both. Drugs not to be tampered with 23. (1) It shall be unlawful for any per son to cause any dangerous drug in transit to be s ubjected to any process which would alter its nature, or wilfully to open or break any package containing a dangerous drug in transit except upon the instructions of the Minister or of any officer authorized by the Minister to give such instructions and in such manner as he or such officer may direct. (2) Any person who contravenes this section shall be guilty of an offence against this Act, and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding *twenty thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding five years or to both. The diversion of dangerous drugs in transit 24. (1) No person shall, except under the authority and in accordance with the terms and conditions of a diversion certificate in the Form E set out in the Second Schedule, cause or procure any dangerous drug brought into Malaysia in transit to be diverted to any destination other than that to which it was originally consigned. In the case of any drug in transit accompanied b y an export authorization or a diversion certificate issued by a competent authority of some other country, the country to which the drug was originally consigned shall be deemed to be the country stated in such export authorization or diversion certificate to be the country of destination. *NOTE—Previously “ten thousand ringgit” and “ three years imprisonment” –see Dangerous Drugs (Amendment) Act 1973 [Act A194]. 

Dangerous Drugs 29 (2) The Minister may, in his absolute discretion, issue a diversion certificate in respect of any dangerous drug in transit upon production to him of a valid and subsisting import certificate issued by a competent authority in the country to which it is proposed to div ert the drug, or if that country is not a party to the Convention upon such evidence as may satisfy him that the drug is to be sent in a lawful manner and for a proper purpose. (3) A diversion certificate shall be issued in duplicate: one copy thereof shall accompany the drug when it is removed from Malaysia; another copy shall be despatched by or on behalf of the Minister direct to the proper authority in the country to which the consignment has been diverted. (4) Upon the issue of a diversion certific ate the export authorization or diversion certificate (if any) accompanying the drug on its arrival in Malaysia shall be detained by the Minister or by such officer as the Minister may appoint to perform such duties and returned to the authority issuing su ch authorization or diversion certificate together with a notification of the name of the country to which such drug has been diverted. (5) Any person who contravenes this section shall be guilty of an offence against this Act, and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding *twenty thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding *five years or to both. Exemption of preparation in the possession of travellers 25. Nothing in this Part shall be deemed to apply to such quantity of any dangerous drug in the form of a medicinal preparation in the possession of any person arriving in Malaysia by land, air or water from any place outside Malaysia as is reasonably required for the use of such person and which has been supplied to such per son bona fide by or on the prescription of a medical practitioner residing outside Malaysia in accordance with the law of the country in which such *NOTE—Previously “ten thousand ringgit” and “three yea rs imprisonment” –see Dangerous Drugs (Amendment) Act 1973 [Act A194]. 

30 Laws of Malaysia ACT 234 drug was so supplied, provided that such person shall, as soon as possible on arrival, declare his possessio n of such dangerous drug to an officer having authority under this Act to search such person and shall submit to such medical examination as may be required of him. PART VA 25A–25P. (Deleted by Act 283). PART VI ANCILLARY AND GENERAL PROVISIONS Interpretation 26. In this Part— “senior officer of customs” and “officer of customs” have, respectively, the same meaning as that assigned to such expressions in the Customs Act 1967 [Act 235]. Powers of inspection and seizure 27. (1) Whenever it appe ars to any Magistrate or Justice of the Peace, upon information and after such inquiry as he thinks necessary, that there is reasonable cause to believe that in or on any premises there is concealed or deposited any dangerous drug, syringe, pipe, lamp, ute nsil or other article liable to forfeiture under this Act, or as to which an offence under this Act has been committed, or any book or document directly or indirectly relating to or connected with any transaction or dealing which was, or any intended trans action or dealing which would if carried out be, an offence under this Act, or, in the case of a transaction or dealing carried out or intended to be carried out in any place outside Malaysia, an offence un der the provisions of any corresponding law in for ce in that place, such Magistrate or Justice of the Peace may, by his warrant directed to any police officer not below the rank of Sergeant or to any officer of 

Dangerous Drugs 31 customs or to any Drug Enforcement Officer, empower such officer by day or by night— (a) to enter such premises and there to search for, and seize and detain, any such dangerous drug, article, book or document; (b) where the officer is a police officer or an officer of customs, to arrest any person or pers ons being in or on such premises in whose possession any dangerous drug or article subject to forfeiture under this Act is found, or whom the officer reasonably believes to have concealed or deposited such dangerous drug or article; and (c) to seize and detain any book or document found in or on such premises or on such person. (2) Such officer may if it is necessary so to do— (a) break open any outer or inner door or window of such premises and enter thereinto; (b) forcibly enter such premises and every part thereof; (c) remove by force any obstruction to such entr y, search, seizure and removal as he is empowered to effect; (d) detain every person found in or on such premises, until such premises have been searched. (3) Any police officer not below the rank of Sub -Inspector or any senior officer of customs or any Dru g Enforcement Officer or any person authorized in that behalf by any general or special order of the Minister may, for the purposes of this Act, enter the premises of any person carrying on the business of a producer, manufacturer, seller or distributor of any dangerous drug and demand the production of, and inspect, any book or document relating to dealing in any such dangerous drug, and inspect any stock of such dangerous drug. (4) Whenever it appears to any police officer not below the rank of Sub-Inspector or to any senior officer of customs or to any Drug 

32 Laws of Malaysia ACT 234 Enforcement Officer that there is reasonable cause to believe that in or on any premises there is concealed or deposited, in contravention of this Act, any dangerous drug, syringe, pipe, lamp, utensi l or other article or any such book or document as is described in subsection (1) and he has good grounds for believing that, by reason of the delay in obtaining a search warrant, the object of the search is likely to be frustrated, he may exercise in, upo n and in respect of such premises all the powers mentioned in subsection (1), except, in the case of a Drug Enforcement Officer, the power of arrest, in as full and ample a manner as if he were empowered to do so by warrant issued under the said subsection. (5) Any police officer not below the rank of Sub -Inspector or any senior officer of customs shall be entitled to exercise in, upon and in respect of any ship, not being or having the status of a ship of war, or any aircraft, islet, landing place or wha rf or any warehouse or place adjoining a wharf, and used in connection therewith, all the powers mentioned in subsection (1) in as full and ample a manner as if he were empowered to do so by warrant issued under the said subsection. (6) Any police officer or officer of customs may, for the purpose of carrying out this Act, board any ship, not being or having the status of a ship of war, or any aircraft and remain on board as long as such ship or aircraft remains in Malaysia. (7) Any box, chest, package or other article, which is being landed or has been recently landed from any ship or which is in or upon any ship (not being or having the status of a ship of war), aircraft, islet, landing place or wharf, o r which is being removed from any such ship, islet, landing place or wharf, or which is being brought into, or has recently been brought into Malaysia, by land, air or water, or is about to be taken out of Malaysia by land, air or water— (a) may be examined and searched by any officer of customs and may be d etained until any person in charge or possession thereof has opened the same to admit of such examination and search and in default of such opening may be removed by such officer to a police station or to a customs office; 

Dangerous Drugs 33 (b) may be broken open by the order o f any senior officer of customs to facilitate such examination and search: Provided that any person in charge, or in possession of such box, chest, package or other article shall be afforded every reasonable facility for being present at such breaking ope n, examination or search. (8) Any police officer or any officer of customs may stop and search any conveyance which he has reasonable ground for believing to be used for the carriage of any dangerous drug in contravention of this Act. (9) Any person la nding or being about to land or having recently landed from any ship, or leaving any ship in the waters of Malaysia, whether for the purpose of landing or otherwise, or entering or having recently entered Malaysia by land, air or water, or being about to leave Malaysia by land, air or water shall— (a) on demand by any officer of customs, either permit his person and goods and baggage to be searched by such officer or, together with such goods and baggage, accompany such officer to a police station or a customs office, and there permit his person, goods and baggage to be searched by any officer of customs in the presence and under the supervision of a senior officer of customs; (b) on demand by any senior officer of customs, permit his person and goods and baggage to be searched by him or by some other officer of customs in his presence and under his supervision: Provided that the goods of any person who claims to be present when these are searched shall not be sear ched except in his presence and provided that no female shall be searched except by a female. 

34 Laws of Malaysia ACT 234 Power to intercept communication 27A. (1) Notwithstanding any other written law, the Public Prosecutor, if he considers that it is likely to contain any information relating to the commission of an offence against this Act or to an act preparatory to or for the purpose of committing an offence against this Act, may, on the application of a police officer not below the rank of Superintendent of Police or of an officer of customs not below the rank of Assistan t Director of Customs and Excise, authorize any police officer or officer of customs, as the case may be— (a) to intercept, detain and open any postal article in the course of transmission by post; (b) to intercept any message transmitted or received by any telecommunication; or (c) to intercept or listen to any conversation by telecommunication. (2) When any person is charged with an offence against this Act, any information obtained by a police officer or officer of customs in pursuance of subsection (1), whether before or after such person is charged, shall be admissible at his trial in evidence. (3) An authorization by the Public Prosecutor under subsection (1) may be given either orally or in writing, and either to any particular police officer or officer of c ustoms, or generally to the Inspector General of Police and all other police officers or the Director General of Customs and Excise and all other officers of customs: Provided that where an oral authorizat ion is given, the Public Prosecutor shall, as soon as practicable, reduce the authorization into writing. (4) A certificate by the Public Prosecutor that the action taken by a police officer or an officer of customs in pursuance of subsection (1) had been authorized by him under subsection (1) shall be c onclusive evidence that it had been so authorized, and such certificate shall be admissible in evidence without proof of signature thereof. 

Dangerous Drugs 35 (5) No person shall be under any duty, obligation or liability, or be in any manner compelled, to disclose in any pr oceedings the procedure, method, manner or means, or any matter whatsoever related thereto, with regard to anything done under paragraph (1) (a), (b) or (c). (6) For the purpose of this section— “postal article” shall have the same meaning as in the *Postal Services Act 2012 [Act 741]; and “telecommunication” shall have the same meaning as in the **Communications and Multimedia Act 1998 [Act 588]. Obstruction of inspection or search 28. Any person who— (a) refuses any officer authorized to enter or sear ch access to any premises, or conveyance; or (b) assaults, obstructs, hinders or delays him in effecting any entrance which he is entitled to effect under this Act, or in the execution of any duty imposed or power conferred by this Act; or (c) fails to comply wi th any lawful demands of any police officer or officer of customs in the execution of his duty under this Act; or (d) refuses or neglects to give any information which may reasonably be required of him and whi ch he has it in his power to give; or (e) fails to pr oduce or conceals or attempts to conceal any book, document, dangerous drug, syringe, pipe, lamp, or *NOTE— This Act has replaced the Postal Services Act 1991 [Act 465]–see section 110 of Act 741. **NOTE—This Act has replaced the Telecommunications Act 1950 [ Act 20]–see subsection 273(1) of Act 588. 

36 Laws of Malaysia ACT 234 utensil in relation to which there is reasonable ground for suspecting that an offence has been or is being committed against this Act; or (f) rescues or endeavours to rescue or causes to be rescued any things which have been duly seized; or (g) furnishes to any officer as true, information which he knows or has reason to believe to be false; or (h) before or after an y seizure, breaks or otherwise destroys anything t o prevent the seizure thereof, or the securing of the same, shall be guilty of an offence against this Act, and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding two thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding one year or to both. Indemnity 29. (1) The Government shall not be liable to make good any damage which any goods or other property may sustain as a result of an entry, search or detention under this Act, unless such damage s hall have been caused by the wilful neglect or def ault of an officer employed by the Government. (2) In the event of any dispute as to the amount of any damage so caused the same shall be summarily ascertained and determined by a Magistrates’ Court. Seizure and forfeiture of drugs, etc. 30. (1) All dangerous drugs, syringes, pipes, lamps, utensils, books and documents in respect of which any police officer or officer of customs reasonably believes that an offence under this Act or any breach of the rest rictions or conditions subject to or upon which an y licence, permit or authorization has been granted has been or is being committed, together with any receptacle, package or conveyance or 

Dangerous Drugs 37 other article in which the same is found or which is reasonably suspected of having been used in the commission of th e offence or breach, may be seized by such officer. (2) All things liable to seizure under this section, shall be liable to forfeiture. (3) Whenever any conveyance is seized under this section, the seizing officer shall forthwith give notice in writing o f such seizure and the grounds thereof to the owner of such conveyance, if known, either by delivering such notice to him personally or by post at his place of abode: Provided that such notice shall not be required to be given where such seizure is made i n the presence of the offender or the owner of such conveyance or his agent, or in the case of a ship or an aircraft in the presence of the master or pilot as the case maybe. (4) Subsection (1) shall not a pply to any ship of more than one hundred tons burden or to any train or to any aircraft belonging to any person carrying on a regular passenger or freight service to and from Malaysia: Provided that any such ship or aircraft may be detained by a police officer not below the rank of Sub -Inspector or a se nior officer of customs pending an application to the Court for an order under section 38, which application shall be made as soon as practicable after the commencement of such detention of such ship or aircraft. (5) When any conveyance has been seized un der this section, a police officer not below the rank of Sub -Inspector or a senior officer of customs may at his discretion return such conveyance to the owner of the same on security being furnished to the satisfaction of such officer that the conveyance shall be surrendered to him on demand. (6) An order for the forfeiture or for the release of anything liable to forfeiture under this section shall be made by the Court before which the prosecution with regard thereto has been held, and an order for the f orfeiture of the thing shall be made if it is proved to the satisfaction of the Court that an offence under this Act or any breach 

38 Laws of Malaysia ACT 234 of the restrictions or conditions subject to or upon which any licence, permit or authorization has been granted has been committed and that the thing was the subject matter of or was used in the commission of the offence notwithstanding that no person may have been convicted of such offence or breach. (7) If there be no prosecution with regard to anything seized under this section, such thing shall be taken and deemed to be forfeited at the expiration of one calendar month from the date of seizure unless a claim thereto is made before that date in the manner hereinafter set forth. (8) Any person asserting that he is the owne r of anything liable to forfeiture under subsection (7) and that it is not liable to forfeiture may personally or by his agent authorized in writing give written notice to a police officer not below the ran k of Sub -Inspector or a senior officer of customs that he claims the same. (9) On receipt of such notice the police officer or the senior officer of customs shall refer the claim to a Sessions Court Judge in Peninsular Malaysia or to a Magistrate of the First Class in the State of Sabah or Sarawak for his decision. (10) The Sessions Court Judge or the Magistrate to whom reference is made under subsection (9) shall issue a summons requiring the person asserting that he is the owner of the thing and the person from whom it was seized to appear before him, and upon their appearance or default to appear, due service of such summons being proved, the Sessions Court Judge or the Magistrate shall proceed to the examination of the matter and on proof that an offence under this Act or a breach of the restrictions or conditions subject to or upon which any licence, permit or authorization has been granted has been committed and that such thing was the subject matter, or was used in the commission of such offence or b reach shall order the same to be forfeited, or may in the absence of such proof order its release. (11) In any proceeding before any Court relating to the seizure of any dangerous drugs, syringes, pipes, lamps, utensils, books, documents, receptacles, packages or conveyance subject to forfeiture under this section the Court shall proceed with the trial or the appeal 

Dangerous Drugs 39 as the case may be on the merits of the case only without enquiring into the manner or form of making any seizure except in so far as the manner and form of seizure may be evidence on such merits. Things seized may be delivered to the owner or other person 30A. The Minister may upon application made to him in writing order anything seized under this Act, whether forfeited or taken and deemed to be forfeited, to be delivered to the owner or o ther person entitled thereto upon such terms and conditions as he may deem fit: Provided that any such application shall be made before the expiration of one calendar month from the date of forfeiture of s uch thing or from the date on which such thing shall be taken and deemed to be forfeited as the case may be. Power of arrest and seizure 31. (1) Any police officer or any officer of customs may arrest without a warrant any person whom he reasonably believes to have committed or to be committing an offe nce against this Act, and every offence against this Act shall be deemed to be a seizable offence for the purposes of the Criminal Procedure Code [Act 593]. (2) Every person so arrested shall, together wit h any article as to which an offence may have been committed or which is otherwise reasonably believed by the officer making such arrest to be liable to forfeiture under this Act, be taken to a police station or to a customs office, and every person so arrested maybe searched at any convenient place provided that no female shall be searched except by a female. (3) Any police officer or officer of customs making an arrest under this section may seize and detain any package, receptacle and conveyance which he has reasonable grounds for believing is liable to forfeiture under section 30 or to detention under an order of the Court under section 38. 

40 Laws of Malaysia ACT 234 Examination of arrested person by a medical officer 31A. (1) When any person is arrested on a charge of committing an offence against this Act— (a) which is of such a nature; or (b) which is alleged to have been committed under such circumstances, as give reasonable grounds for believing that an examination of his person will afford evidence as to the commission of an of fence against this Act, it shall be lawful for a m edical officer acting at the request of any police officer not below the rank of Sergeant, or any other officer in charge of a police station, or any officer of customs, and for any person acting in aid of a medical officer and under his direction, to make such an examination or examinations of the person arrested as may be reasonably necessary in order to ascertain the facts which may afford such evidence, and to use or cause to be used such force as may be reasonably necessary for that purpose. (1A) For the purpose of preservation of evidence, it shall be lawful for a police officer not below the rank of Sergeant or an officer of customs to require an arrested person to provide a specimen of his urine for the purposes of an examination under subsection (1 ) if it is not practicable for the medical officer or the person who is acting in aid of or on the direction of a medical officer to obtain the specimen of the urine within a reasonable period. (1AA) Any b iological sample collected for the purposes of an examination under this section may be analysed by a science officer employed by the Government. (1B) Any person who, without reasonable excuse, fails to provide a specimen of his urine as may be required under subsection (1) or (1 A) shall be guilty of an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding ten thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding four years or to both. 

Dangerous Drugs 41 (2) For the purposes of this section “medical off icer” includes any person employed by the Governme nt or a statutory authority as a medical officer or as a chemist. Procedure where investigation cannot be completed within twenty- four hours by an officer of customs 31B. (1) Whenever any person is arrested and detained in custody by any officer of cust oms for an offence against this Act, and it appears that the investigation cannot be completed within a period of twenty-four hours from the time that the person is arrested, any officer of customs may prod uce such person before a Magistrate and the Magistrate may, whether he has or has not jurisdiction to try the case, from time to time, authorize the detention of such person in such custody as such Magistrate thinks fit for a term not exceeding fifteen days in the whole. (2) If a Magistrate acting under subsection (1) does not have jurisdiction to try the case and considers further detention unnecessary, he may order such person to be produced before a court having such jurisdiction, or, if the case is tri able exclusively by the High Court, before himself or any Magistrate having jurisdiction with a view to transmitting the case for trial by the High Court. (3) Nothing in this section shall be construed as in any manner derogating from section 117 of the Criminal Procedure Code in its application in any c ase of an offence against this Act where the investigation is made by a police officer. False declaration 32. Any person who, for the purpose of obtaining, whether for himself or for any other person, th e issue, grant, or renewal of any licence or autho rity under this Act, makes any declaration or statement which is false in any material particular, or knowingly utters, produces, or makes use of, any such declaration or statement or any document containing the same, shall be guilty of an offence against this Act, and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not 

42 Laws of Malaysia ACT 234 exceeding two thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding one year or to both. Abetments and attempts punishable as offences 33. Any person who abets the commission of, or who at tempts to commit, or does any act preparatory to or in furtherance of the commission of, any offence under this Act shall be guilty of such offence and liable to the punishment provided for such offence. Abetting or procuring the commission of an offence abroad 34. Any person who within Malaysia, abets the commission in any place outside Malaysia of any offence punishable under any corresponding law in force in that place, or does any act preparatory to, or in furtherance of, any act, which offence or ac t if committed in Malaysia would constitute an offence under this Act shall be guilty of an offence under this Act and shall be punishable in the same manner as if the offence or act which he abetted or in respect of which he did such preparatory act or wh ich he furthered had been committed or intended to be committed in Malaysia. Liability of officers of a company and employers and servants 35. (1) Where an offence against this Act is committed by a company, the chairman and every director and every off icer concerned in the management of the company shall be guilty of the like offence, unless he proves to the satisfaction of the Court that the act constituting the offence took place without his knowledge or consent. (2) Any person licensed or authorized under any regulation made under this Act who would be liable under this Act or under any regulation made thereunder to any punishment, penalty or forfeiture for any act, omission, neglect or default shall be liable to the same punishment, penalty or forfe iture for every such act, omission, neglect or default of any agent or servant employed by him in the 

Dangerous Drugs 43 course of his business as such licensed or authorized person, if such act, omission, neglect or default is committed by such agent or servant in the cours e of his employment by such licensed or authorized person. (3) Every such agent or servant shall also be liable to every punishment, penalty or forfeiture prescribed by this Act or under any regulation mad e thereunder for such acts, omissions, neglects or defaults done or omitted to be done by him as fully and effectually as if he had been the person licensed or authorized. Burden of proof 36. It shall not be necessary in any proceedings against any person for an offence against this Act to negative by evidence any licence, authorization, authority, or other matter of exception or defence, and the burden of proving any such matter shall be on the person seeking to avail himself thereof. Presumptions 37. In all proceedings under this Act or any regulat ion made thereunder— (a) any premises shall be deemed to be used for a purpose if they are used for that purpose even on one occasion only; (b) a person, until the contrary is proved, shall be deemed to be the occupier of any premises, if he has, or appears to h ave, the care or management of such premises; (c) if any syringe and dangerous drug suitable for hypodermic injection, or any pipe and dangerous drug suitable for smoking be found in any premises, it shall be presumed, until the contrary is proved, that the p remises are used for the purpose of the administration of a dangerous drug to, or the smoking or consumption otherwise of a dangerous drug 

44 Laws of Malaysia ACT 234 by, a human being and that the occupier permits such premises to be used for such purpose; (d) any person who is found to have had in his custody or under his control anything whatsoever containing any dangerous drug shall, until the contrary is proved, be deemed to have been in possession of such drug and shall, until the c ontrary is proved, be deemed to have known the nat ure of such drug; (da) any person who is found in possession of— (i) 15 grammes or more in weight of heroin; (ii) 15 grammes or more in weight of morphine; (iii) 15 grammes or more in weight of monoacetylmorphines; (iiia) a total of 15 grammes or more in weight of heroin, morphine and monoacetylmorphines or a total of 15 grammes or more in weight of any two of the said dangerous drugs; (iv) 1,000 grammes or more in weight of prepared opium; (v) 1,000 grammes or more in weight of raw opium; (va) a total of 1,000 grammes o r more in weight of prepared opium and raw opium; (vi) 200 grammes or more in weight of cannabis; (vii) 200 grammes or more in weight of cannabis resin; (viii) a total of 200 grammes or more in weight of cannabis and cannabis resin; (ix) 40 grammes or more in weight of cocaine; 

Dangerous Drugs 45 (x) 2,000 grammes or more in weight of coca leaves; (xi) 50 grammes or more in weight of 2 -Amino(2, 5- dimethoxymethyl) phenylpropane; (xii) 50 grammes or more in weight of Amphetamine; (xiii) 50 grammes or more in weight of 2, 5 - Dimethoxyamphetamine (DMA); (xiv) 50 gr ammes or more in weight of Dimethoxybromoamphetamine (DOB); (xv) 50 grammes or more in weight of 2, 5 -Dimethoxyethylamphetamine (DOET); (xvi) 50 grammes or more in weight of Methamphetamine; (xvii) 50 grammes or more in weight of 5 -Methoxy-3, 4 - Methylenedioxyamphetamine (MMDA); (xviii) 50 grammes or more in weight of Methylenedioxyamphetamine (MDA); (xix) 50 grammes or more in weight of N-ethyl MDA; (xx) 50 grammes or more in weight of N-hydroxy MDA; (xxi) 50 grammes or more in weight of N-methyl-1 (3, 4 - methylenedioxyphenyl)butanamine; (xxii) 50 grammes or more in weight of 3, 4 - Methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA); (xxiii) 50 grammes or more in weight of Paramethoxyamphetamine (PMA); (xxiv) 50 grammes or more in weight of 3, 4, 5 - Trimethoxyamphetamine (3, 4, 5-TMA); or 

46 Laws of Malaysia ACT 234 (xxv) a total of 50 grammes or more i n weight of any combination of the dangerous drugs listed in subparagraphs (xi) to (xxiv), otherwise than in accordance with the authority of this Act or any other written law, shall be presumed, until the contrary is proved, to be trafficking in the said drug; (e) any person who is found to have had in his possession or under his control or subject to his order any document of title relating to any dangerous drug shall, until the contrary is proved, be deemed to have known the nature of such drug; (f) if any da ngerous drug is found to be concealed in any ship or aircraft it shall be presumed, until the contrary is proved, that the said drug is so concealed with the knowledge of the master of the ship or aircraft and has been imported in such ship or aircraft; (g) if any dangerous drug is found to be concealed in any premises, it shall be presumed, until the contrary is proved, that the said drug is so concealed with the knowledge of the occupier of the premises; (h) if any dangerous drug is found concealed in any compartment, specially constructed for the purpose, on any vehicle, it shall until the contrary is proved, be deemed to have been so concealed with the knowledge of the owner of the vehicle and of the person in charge of the vehicle for the time being; (i) evidence by a police officer not below the rank of Sergeant or by a senior officer of customs that any pipe or other article is for use in the consumption of prepared opium, cannabis, cannabis resin or substances of which such resin forms the base, or in the prep aration of any of the aforesaid substances for consumption shall, until the contrary is proved, be deemed to be sufficient evidence of the fact, and for the purposes of this paragraph “consumption” means 

Dangerous Drugs 47 eating, chewing, smoking, swallowing, drinking, inhaling or introducing any of the aforesaid substances into the body in any manner or by any means whatsoever; (j) when any substance suspected of being a dangerous drug has been seized and such substance is contained in a number of receptacles, it shall be sufficient to analyse samples of the contents of a number not less than ten per centum of such receptacles and if such analysis establishes that such samples are all of the same nature and description, it shall be presumed, until the contrary is proved, that t he contents of all the receptacles were of the same nature and description as the samples so analysed and if such analysis establishes that such samples consist of or contain a dangerous drug, it shall be presumed, until the contrary is proved, that the co ntents of all the receptacles consist of or contain the same proportion of such drug; (k) if a person is charged for an offence of consuming a dangerous drug or administering a dangerous drug to himself or suf fering any other person to administer a dangerous drug to him, and any dangerous drug is found in the urine of the person charged as a result of a urine test conducted under section 31 A, the person shall be presumed, until the contrary is proved, to have consumed the drug or to have administered the drug to himself or to have suffered any other person to administer the drug to him in contravention of this Act or its regulations. Application of presumptions 37A. Notwithstanding anything under any written law or rule of law, a presumption may be applied u nder this Part in addition to or in conjunction with any other presumption provided under this Part or any other written law. 

48 Laws of Malaysia ACT 234 Admission of statements in evidence 37B. (1) Where any person is charged with any offence against this Act any statement, whe ther such statement amounts to a confession or not or is oral or in writing, made at any time, whether before or after such person is charged and whether in the course of a police investigation or not and w hether or not wholly or partly in answer to questions, by such person to or in the hearing of any police officer of or above the rank of Inspector or any senior officer of customs and whether or not interpreted to him by any other police officer or senior officer of customs or any other person concerned o r not in the arrest, shall notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any written law, be admissible at his trial in evidence and, if such person tenders himself as a witness, any such statement may be used in cross-examination and for the purpose of impeaching his credit: Provided that no such statement shall be admissible or used as aforesaid— (a) if the making of the statement appears to the Court to have been caused by any inducement, threat or promise having reference to the charge against suc h person, proceeding from a person in authority and sufficient in the opinion of the Court to give such person grounds which would appear to him reasonable for supposing that by making it he would gain any advantage or avoid any evil of a temporal nature i n reference to the proceeding against him; or (b) in the case of a statement made by such person after his arrest, unless the court is satisfied that a caution was administered to him in the following words or words to the like effect— “It is my duty to war n you that you are not obliged to say anything or to answer any question, but anything you say, whether in answer to a question or not, may be given in evidence”: Provided that a statement made by any per son before there is time to caution him shall not be rendered 

Dangerous Drugs 49 inadmissible in evidence merely by reason of no such caution having been given if it has been given as soon as possible. (2) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any written law a person accused of an offence to which subsect ion (1) applies shall not be bound to answer any questions relating to such case after any such caution as aforesaid has been administered to him. (3) Where a statement is purported to be made by a person charged with an offence against this Act under an d in accordance with section 113 of the Criminal Procedure Code, the statement so made shall be deemed to have been made under and in accordance with this section. Ship or aircraft used for unlawful import or export 38. (1) If any ship or any aircraft i s used for the import or export of any drug contrary to this Act or for the receipt or storage of any drug imported contrary to this Act, the owner and master thereof shall be guilty of an offence against this Act and liable to a fine not exceeding ten thousand ringgit unless it is proved to the satisfaction of the Court that the owner or master was not implicated in the placing or keeping of such drug on board the ship or aircraft and that the offence in question was committed without his knowledge, consen t or connivance, and the ship or aircraft may be detained by order of the Court until security has been given for such sum as the Court orders, not exceeding ten thousand ringgit. (2) Except in the case of drugs consigned in accordance with an authorization issued under section 19, 20 or 24 or in transit in accordance with section 21, the finding of any drug on board any ship or aircraft shall be prima facie evidence that the ship or aircraft has been used for the importation or exportation of such drug contrary to this Act or for the receipt or storage of drugs imported contrary to this Act. (3) Any person who conceals any dangerous drug in any part of any ship or aircraft or who, being cognizant of any da ngerous drug being concealed in any ship or aircra ft, does not take the earliest 

50 Laws of Malaysia ACT 234 reasonable opportunity of reporting the same to the master of such ship or aircraft after such ship has entered the territorial waters of Malaysia or such aircraft has landed in Malaysia, as the case may be, shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding *twenty thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding *five years or to both, unless he shall prove that he informed such master before such ship entered such waters or such aircraft so landed, as the cas e may be. Powers of the Court in respect of drug dependants below the age of eighteen 38A. Where any person below the age of eighteen years is found guilty of an offence against this Act other than an offence under section 6 B or 39 B or other than in a c ase where a person is found guilty of an offence against this Act for which the punishment shall be under section 39 A, the Court may, if it is satisfied that such person is a drug dependant as certified by a government medical officer or a registered medical practitioner and that it is inexpedient to inflict the punishment provided, deal with such person under section 6 of the Drug Dependants (Treatment and Rehabilitation) Act 1983 [Act 283]. Powers of the Court in respect of persons found guilty under section 15 38B. (1) Where a person is found guilty of an offence under section 15, he shall, immediately after having undergone the punishment imposed upon him in respect thereof, undergo supervision by an officer as defined under section 2 of the Drug Depe ndants (Treatment and Rehabilitation) Act 1983 for a period of not less than two and not more than three years as may be determined by the Court. (2) A person required to undergo supervision under subsection (1) shall be deemed to have been placed under such supervision under *NOTE—Previously “two thousand ringgit” and “one year imprisonment” –see Dangerous Drugs (Amendment) Act 1973 [Act A194]. 

Dangerous Drugs 51 paragraph 6(1) (b) of the Drug Dependants (Treatment and Rehabilitation) Act 1983. General penalty 39. Every person convicted of an offence under this Act for which no penalty is sp ecifically provided shall, in resp ect of each offe nce, be liable to a fine not exceeding *five thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding *two years or to both. Increased penalty where the subject matter is the prescribed amount of certain dangerous drugs 39A. (1) Every person found g uilty of an offence against this Act where the subject matter of the offence is— (a) 2 grammes or more but less than 5 grammes in weight of heroin; (b) 2 grammes or more but less than 5 grammes in weight of morphine; (c) 2 grammes or more but less than 5 grammes in weight of monoacetylmorphines; (d) a total of 2 grammes or more but less than 5 grammes in weight of heroin, morphine and monoacetylmorphines or a total of 2 grammes or more but less than 5 grammes in weight of any two of the said dangerous drugs; (e) 5 grammes or more but less than 15 grammes in weight of cocaine; (f) 20 grammes or more but less than 50 grammes in weight of cannabis; *NOTE—Previously “two thousand ringgit” and “one year imprisonment” –see Dangerous Drugs (Amendment) Act 1973 [Act A194]. 

52 Laws of Malaysia ACT 234 (g) 20 grammes or more but less than 50 grammes in weight of cannabis resin; (h) a total of 20 grammes or more but less than 50 grammes in weight of cannabis and cannabis resin; (i) 100 grammes or more but less than 250 grammes in weight of raw opium; (j) 100 grammes or more but less than 250 grammes in weight of prepared opium; (k) a total of 100 grammes or more but less than 250 grammes in weight of raw opium and prepared opium; (l) 250 grammes or more but less than 750 grammes in weight of coca leaves; (m) 5 grammes or more but less than 30 grammes in weight of 2-Amino(2, 5-dimethoxy-4methyl) phenylpropane; (n) 5 grammes or more but less than 30 grammes i n weight of Amphetamine; (o) 5 grammes or more but less than 30 grammes in weight of 2, 5-Dimethoxyamphetamine (DMA); (p) 5 grammes or more but less than 30 grammes in weight of Dimethoxybromoamphetamine (DOB); (q) 5 grammes or more but less than 30 grammes in weig ht of 2, 5-Dimethoxyethylamphetamine (DOET); (r) 5 grammes or more but less than 30 grammes in weight of Methamphetamine; (s) 5 grammes or more but less than 30 grammes in weight of 5-Methoxy-3, 4-Methylenedioxyamphetamine (MMDA); 

Dangerous Drugs 53 (t) 5 grammes or more but less than 30 grammes in weight of Methylenedioxyamphetamine (MDA); (u) 5 grammes or more but less than 30 grammes in weight of N-ethyl MDA; (v) 5 grammes or more but less than 30 grammes in weight of N-hydroxy MDA; (w) 5 grammes or more but less than 30 grammes in weigh t of N-methyl(3, 4-methylenedioxyphenyl)butanamine (x) 5 grammes or more but less than 30 grammes in weight of 3, 4-Methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA); (y) 5 grammes or more but less than 30 grammes in we ight of Paramethoxyamphetamine (PMA); (z) 5 grammes o r more but less than 30 grammes in weight of 3, 4, 5-Trimethoxyamphetamine (3, 4, 5-TMA); or (za) a total of 5 grammes or more but less than 30 grammes in weight of any combination of the dangerous drugs listed in paragraphs (m) to (z), shall, instead o f being liable to the punishment provided for that offence under the section under which the person has been so found guilty, be punished with imprisonment for a term which shall not be less than two years but shall not exceed five years, and he shall also be punished with whipping of not less than three strokes but not more than nine strokes. (2) Every person found guilty of an offence against this Act where the offence is not punishable with death and where the subject matter of the offence is— (a) 5 grammes or more in weight of heroin; (b) 5 grammes or more in weight of morphine; 

54 Laws of Malaysia ACT 234 (c) 5 grammes or more in weight of monoacetylmorphines; (d) a total of 5 grammes or more in weight of heroin, morphine and monoacetylmorphines or a total of 5 grammes or more in weight of any two of the said dangerous drugs; (e) 15 grammes or more in weight of cocaine; (f) 50 grammes or more in weight of cannabis; (g) 50 grammes or more in weight of cannabis resin; (h) a total of 50 grammes or more in weight of cannabis and cannabis resin; (i) 250 grammes or more in weight of raw opium; (j) 250 grammes or more in weight of prepared opium; (k) a total of 250 grammes or more in weight of raw opium and prepared opium; (l) 750 grammes or more in weight of coca leaves; (m) 30 grammes or more in weight of 2 -Amino(2, 5 - dimethoxymethyl) phenylpropane; (n) 30 grammes or more in weight of Amphetamine; (o) 30 grammes or more in weight of 2, 5 - Dimethoxyamphetamine (DMA); (p) 30 grammes or more in weight of Dimethoxybromoamphetamine (DOB); (q) 30 grammes or more in weight of 2, 5 -Dimethoxy ethylamphetamine (DOET); (r) 30 grammes or more in weight of Methamphetamine; 

Dangerous Drugs 55 (s) 30 grammes or more in weight of 5 -Methoxy-3, 4 - Methylenedioxyamphetamine (MMDA); (t) 30 grammes or more in weight of Methylenedioxyamphetamine (MDA); (u) 30 grammes or more in weight of N-ethyl MDA; (v) 30 grammes or more in weight of N-hydroxy MDA; (w) 30 grammes or more in weight of N -methyl(3, 4 - Methylenedioxyphenyl)butanamine; (x) 30 grammes or more in weight of 3, 4 - Methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA); (y) 30 grammes or more in weight of Paramethoxyamphetamine (PMA); (z) 30 grammes or more in weight of 3, 4, 5 - Trimethoxyamphetamine (3, 4, 5-TMA); or (za) a total of 30 grammes or more in weight of any combination of the dangerous drugs listed in paragraphs (m) to (z), shall, in stead of being liable to the punishment provided for that offence under the section under which the person has been so found guilty, be punished with imprisonment for *life or for a term which shall not be less than five years, and he shall also be punishe d with whipping of not less than **ten strokes. Trafficking in dangerous drugs 39B. (1) No person shall, on his own behalf or on behalf of any other person, whether or not such other person is in Malaysia— *NOTE—Previously “a term not exceeding fourteen years and not less than three years” –see Dangerous Drugs (Amendment) Act 1983 [Act A553]. **NOTE—Previously “six strokes”–see Dangerous Drugs (Amendment) Act 1986 [Act A659]. 

56 Laws of Malaysia ACT 234 (a) traffic in a dangerous drug; (b) offer to traffic in a dangerous drug; or (c) do or offer to do an act preparatory to or for the purpose of trafficking in a dangerous drug. *(2) Any person who contravenes any of the provisions of subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence against this Act and shall be p unished on conviction with death or imprisonment for life and shall, if he is not sentenced to death, **be punished with whipping of not less than twelve strokes. (2A) (Deleted by Act 846). (2B) (Deleted by Act 846). (3) A prosecution under this section shall not be instit uted except by or with the consent of the Public Prosecutor: Provided that a person may be arrested, or a warrant for his arrest may be issued and executed, and any such person may be remanded in custody notwithstanding that the consen t of the Public Prosecutor to the institution of a prosecution for the offence has not been obtained, but the case shall not be further prosecuted until the consent has been obtained. (4) When a person is brought before a Court under this section before t he Public Prosecutor has consented to the prosecution the charge shall be explained to him but he shall not be called upon to plead, and the provisions of the law for the time being in force relating to criminal procedure shall be modified accordingly. *NOTE—Previously “on conviction with death” –see Dangerous Drugs (Amendment) Act 2017 [Act A1558 ]. See section 3 of Dangerous Drugs (Amendment) Act 2017 [ Act A1558] for transitional provisions. **NOTE—Previously “be punished with whipping of not less than fifteen strokes .”–see section 54 of Abolition of Mandatory Death Penalty Act 2023 [ Act 846]. See section 55 of Abolition of Mandatory Death Penalty Act 2023 [Act 846] for transitional provisions. 

Dangerous Drugs 57 Increased penalty where person has prior admissions or convictions 39C. (1) Where a person who has not less than— (a) two previous admissions; (b) two previous convictions under paragraph 10(2) (b) or paragraph 15(1)(a) or any combination of the sections; (c) one previous admission and one previous conviction under paragraph 10(2)(b) or paragraph 15(1)(a); (d) one previous admission and two previous convictions under section 31A; or (e) one previous conviction under paragraph 10(2) (b) or paragraph 15(1) (a) and two previous convictions under section 31A, is found guilty of an offence under paragraph 10(2)(b), paragraph 15(1)(a) or section 31 A, he shall, instead of being liable to the punishment provided for that offence unde r the section under which he has been found guilty, be punished with imprisonment for a term which shall not be less than five years but shall not exceed seven years, and he shall also be punished with whipping of not more than three strokes. (2) Where a person who has been punished under subsection (1) is convicted of a subsequent offence under paragraph 10(2) (b), paragraph 15(1)(a) or section 31 A, he shall, instead of being liable to the punishment provided for that offence under the section under which he has been found guilty, be punished with impriso nment for a term which shall not be less than seven years but shall not exceed thirteen years, and he shall also be punished with whipping of not less than three strokes but not more than six strokes. (3) A certificate to be signed by an officer authorized in writing by the Director General and purporting to relate to a person’s admission to a Rehabilitation Centre shall be admissible in evidence in any proceedings under this section, on its production by t he prosecution 

58 Laws of Malaysia ACT 234 without proof of signature; and, un til the contrary is proved, that certificate shall be evidence of all matters contained in the certificate. (4) For the purposes of this section— “admission” means an admission to undergo treatment and rehabilitation at a Rehabilitation Centre by an orde r of a magistrate under paragraph 6(1) (a) of the Drug Dependants (Treatment and Rehabilitation) Act 1983; “Director General” means the Director General appointed under subsection 2(2) of the Drug Dependant s (Treatment and Rehabilitation) Act 1983; “Rehabilitation Centre” means the Rehabilitation Centre established under section 10 of the Drug Dependants (Treatment and Rehabilitation) Act 1983. Protection of informers 40. (1) Except as hereinafter provided, no complaint as to an offence under this Act s hall be admitted in evidence in any civil or criminal proceeding whatsoever, and no witness shall be obliged or permitted to disclose the name or address of any informer, or state any matter which might lead to his discovery. (2) If any books, documents o r papers which are in evidence or liable to inspection in any civil or criminal proceeding whatsoever contain any entry in which any informer is named or described or which might lead to his discovery, the Court before which the proceeding is had shall cau se all such passages to be concealed from view or to be obliterated so far as is necessary to protect the informer from discovery, but no further. (3) If on trial for any offence under this Act the Court, after full inquiry into the case, is of opinion th at the informer wilfully made in his complaint a material statement which he knew or believed to be false or did not believe to be true, or if in any other proceeding the Court is of opinion that justice cannot be fully done between the 

Dangerous Drugs 59 parties thereto wit hout the discovery of the informer, the Court may require the production of the original complaint, if in writing, and permit inquiry and require full disclosure concerning the informer. Evidence of agent provocateur admissible 40A. (1) Notwithstanding any rule of law or the provisions of this Act or any other written law to the contrary, no agent provocateur shall be presumed to be unworthy of credit by reason only of his having attempted to abet or abetted the commission of an offence by any person und er this Act if the attempt to abet or abetment was for the sole purpose of securing evidence against such person. (2) Notwithstanding any rule of law or this Act or any other written law to the contrary, a nd that the agent provocateur is a police officer whatever his rank or any officer of customs, any statement, whether oral or in writing made to an agent provocateur by any person who subsequently is charged with an offence under this Act shall be admissible as evidence at his trial. Jurisdiction 41. (1) A Sessions Court or a Magistrates’ Court presided over by a Magistrate of the First Class shall have jurisdiction to try any offence under this Act, except an offence under section 39 B, and power to impose for any offence so tried the full punishment or penalty provided for that offence by this Act or by any regulations made thereunder, other than, in the case of a Magistrates’ Court, imprisonment exceeding five years. (2) Notwithstanding subsection (1), the High Court shall have jurisdiction to try any case in respect of any offence under this Act if the Public Prosecutor requires any such case to be tried by the High Court. (3) Subsections (1) and (2) shall have effect notwithstanding any other written law to the contrary. 

60 Laws of Malaysia ACT 234 Special provisions relating to transmission of a case to, and trial by, the High Court *41A. (1) Where any case in respect of an offence under this Act is triable exclusively by the High Court or is required by the Public Prosecutor to be tried by the High Court, the accused person shall be produced before the appropriate subordinate court which shall, after the charge has been explained to him, transmit the case to the High Court without holding a preliminary inquiry under Chapter X VII of the Criminal Procedure Code, and cause the accused person to appear or be brought before such Court as soon as may be practicable. (2) When the accused person appears or is brought before the High Court in accordance with subsection (1), the High Court shall fix a date for his trial which shall be held in accordance with the procedure under Chapter XX of the Criminal Procedure Code. (3) The trial of a case transmitted to the High Court under subsection (1) shall be by a Judge of the High Court sitting alone, and **Chapters XXI and XXII of the Crim inal Procedure Code shall not apply to such trial. (4) Subsections (1), (2) and (3) shall have effect notwithstanding any other written law to the contrary. No bail to be granted in respect of certain offences 41B. (1) Bail shall not be granted to an accused person charged with an offence under this Act— (a) where the offence is punishable with death; (b) where the offence is punishable with imprisonment for more than five years; or *NOTE—See section 7 of Dangerous Drugs (Amendment) Act 1978 [Act A426] for transitional provisions. **NOTE—Chapters XXI and XXII of the Criminal Procedure Code [ Act 593] has since been repealed by the Criminal Procedure Code (Amendment) Act 1995 [Act A908]–see section 11 of Act A908. 

Dangerous Drugs 61 (c) where the offence is punis hable with imprisonment for five years or less and the Public Prosecutor certifies in writing that it is not in the public interest to grant bail to the accused person. (2) Subsection (1) shall have effect notwithstanding any other written law or any rule of law to the contrary. Power to conduct prosecutions 42. Prosecution in respect of offences under this Act may be conducted by any police officer not below the rank of Sub -Inspector, any senior officer of customs, or any officer of customs specially o r generally authorized thereto in writing by the D irector General of Customs and Excise. Rewards 42A. The Inspector General of Police or the Director General of Customs and Excise may order such rewards as he may deem fit to be paid to any officer or other person for services rendered in connection with the detection of offences under this Act or in connection with any seizure made under this Act. Licences, permits, etc., may be subject to conditions 43. Any licence, authorization permit or authority issued or granted under this Act or under any regu lation made thereunder may be issued or granted on such terms and subject to such conditions as may be prescribed, or as the officer issuing or granting the same shall (either generally or in any particular instance) think proper; and in such case, such te rms and conditions shall be binding on and observed by the licensee or grantee, as the case may be. 

62 Laws of Malaysia ACT 234 Power of Minister to delegate powers and functions 44. It shall be lawful for the Minister by order u nder his hand to delegate to any fit and proper of ficer authority to exercise (subject to any limitations which may in such order be specified) any of the powers and functions vested in the Minister by this Act and thereupon such officer shall, to the extent of such delegation, be deemed to be empowered and authorized to exercise such powers and functions accordingly. The Minister may under this section delegate the same powers and functions to more than one officer and different powers and functions to different officers. Power of Minister to exempt cer tain drugs and institutions from certain provisions of the Act 45. The Minister may, by order or by regulations made under this Act, exempt from any of the provisions of this Act or the regulations made thereunder: (a) dangerous drugs in respect of which— (i) the Secretary General of the United Nations Organization shall have communicated to the parties to the Single Convention under article 3 of the said Convention a decision of the Commission; or (ii) the Minister shall have decided that such dangerous drugs cannot give rise to the drug habit on account of the medicaments with which the said dangerous drugs are compounded; or (b) any hospital, infirmary, dispensary wholly or mainly maintained by a public authority out of public funds or such like institutions as he may approve from time to time. 

Dangerous Drugs 63 Power of the Minister to vary First Schedule 45A. If— (a) it appears to the Minister that a decision of the Commission or of the United Nations Organization to alter any of t he Schedules to the Single Convention or to apply to a substance, measures of control applicable under that Convention to substances specified in Schedule 1 thereto, requires the addition of a substance to the First Schedule; or (b) it appears to him probable that there will be taken such a decision as afore said of the Commission or of the United Nations Organization as will require the addition of a substance to the First Schedule and that, in the circumstances of the case, it is expedient to anticipate the decision; or (c) he considers it expedient to add a su bstance to, or remove a substance from, or vary the First Schedule, he may by order make the requisite modifications in the said First Schedule. Act not to derogate from other statutory or other legal provisions and powers 46. The provisions contained in and the powers conferred by this Act shall, except so far as may otherwise expressly be enacted or provided, be in addition to and not in derogation of any other provisions or powers existing under any written law for the time being in force in Malaysia or in any part thereof and in particular, but without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing, to the provisions and powers existing under the Sale of Drugs Act 1952 [ Act 368] or the corresponding written law in force in Sabah or Sarawak. 

64 Laws of Malaysia ACT 234 Regulations 47. (1) The Minister may make regulations for the further, better and more convenient carrying out of the provisions or purposes of this Act and in particular, but without derogating from the general ity of the provisions last aforesaid, with respect to any or all of the following matters: (a) the matters referred to in sections 7 and 16; (b) the prescription of forms and fees in connection with any matter under this Act; (c) the prescription of anything which is required to be, or which may be prescribed, under this Act. (2) The Minister may in such regulations or by separate regulations made under this Act provide that any act or omission in contravention of the provisions of any regulation or of the terms o r conditions of any licence, permit or other autho rity issued under any regulation shall be an offence and may impose one or more of the following penalties for such offence, namely, fine, imprisonment and forfeiture: Provided that no fine imposed by such regulations shall exceed *twenty thousand ringgit and no penalty of imprisonment imposed shall exceed a term of *seven years. (3) All regulations made under this Act shall be published in the Gazette and shall be laid as soon as practicable before the De wan Rakyat. (4) If a resolution of the Dewan Raky at is passed within the next subsequent three months after any such regulation is laid before it annulling the regulation or any part thereof, the whole regulation or such part thereof as the case may be shall thenceforth be void but without prejudice to t he validity of anything previously done thereunder. *NOTE—Previously “ten thousand ringgit” and “four years impriso nment”–see Dangerous Drugs (Amendment) Act 1973 [Act A194]. 

Dangerous Drugs 65 Drug Enforcement Officers to be deemed public servants 48. All Drug Enforcement Officers under this Act shall be deemed to be public servants within the meaning of the Penal Code. Action of officers no offence 49. Nothing done by any officer of the Government in the course of his duties shall be deemed to be an offence under this Act. Repeal 50. The Ordinances, Enactments and Proclamation specified in the Third Schedule are hereby repealed. ______________________________ FIRST SCHEDULE [Sections 2, 11(1) and 17(3)] PART I Raw Opium Coca Leaves Poppy-Straw Cannabis PART II Prepared Opium Cannabis Cannabis resin and substances of which such resin forms the base 

66 Laws of Malaysia ACT 234 PART III Acetorphine Acetyl-alpha-methylfentanyl Acetylfentanyl Acetylmethadol Acryloylfentanyl Alfentanil Allylprodine Alphacetylmethadol Alphameprodine Alphamethadol Alpha-methylfentanyl Alpha-methylthiofentanyl Alphaprodine 2-amino(2, 5-dimethoxymethyl) phenylpropane N-[(2S)Amino-3,3-dimethyloxobutanyl](cyclohexylmethyl)-1H- indazolecarboxamide (ADB-CHMINACA, MAB-CHMINACA) N-[(2S)Amino-3,3-dimethyloxobutanyl][(4-fluorophenyl)methyl]-1H- indazolecarboxamide (ADB-FUBINACA) N-[(2S)Aminomethyloxobutan-2yl]-1(cyclohexylmethyl)-1H-indazole carboxamide (AB-CHMINACA) N-[(2S)Aminomethyloxobutanyl]pentyl-1H-indazolecarboxamide (AB-PINACA) Amphetamine Anileridine Benzethidine Benzylmorphine Betacetylmethadol 8-betadihydroxy-deltatetrahydroxycannabinol 8-beta-hydroxy-deltatetrahydrocannabinol Beta-hydroxyfentanyl Betahydroxymethylfentanyl Betameprodine 

Dangerous Drugs 67 Betamethadol Betaprodine Bezitramide Brorphine Butonitazene Butyrfentanyl 4-bromo-2, 5-dimethoxyphenylethylamine (2C-B) Butorphanol 2-(4-bromo-2,5-dimethoxyphenyl)-N-(2-methoxybenzyl) ethanamine (25B-NBOMe) Carfentanil Cathinone 4-Chloro-2,5-dimethoxyamfetamine (DOC) 2-(4-chloro-2,5-dimethoxyphenyl)-N-(2-methoxybenzyl) ethanamine (25C-NBOMe) Clonitazene Cocaine Codoxime Concentrate of poppy -straw (the material arising when poppy -straw has entered into a process for the concentration of its alkaloids, when such material is made available in trade) Crotonylfentanyl 1-(4-Cyanobutyl)-N-(2-phenylpropan-2yl)-1H-indazolecarboxamide (CUMYL-4CN-BINACA) 1-cyclohexyl(1,2-diphenylethyl)piperazine (MT-45) Cyclopropylfentanyl deltatetrahydrocannabinol deltatetrahydrocannabinol Desomorphine DET, N, N-diethyltryptamine Dextromoramide Diampromide 3,4-dichloro-N-[(1-dimethylamino)cyclohexylmethyl]benzamide (AH-7921) 3,4-dichloro-N-[2-(dimethylamino)cyclohexyl]-N-methylbenzamide (U-47700) 

68 Laws of Malaysia ACT 234 Diethylthiambutene Difenoxin Dihydroetorphine Dihydromorphine Dimenoxadol Dimepheptanol 2, 5-Dimethoxyamphetamine (DMA) Dimethoxybromoamphetamine (DOB) 2, 5-Dimethoxyethylamphetamine (DOET) Dimethylthiambutene Dioxaphetyl butyrate Diphenoxylate Dipipanone DMHP, 3-(1, 2-dimethylheptyl)hydroxy-7, 8, 9, 10 -tetrahydro-6, 6, 9 -trimethyl- 6H-dibenzo [b, d] pyran DMT, N. N-dimethyltryptamine Drotebanol Ecgonine Etazene Ethylmethylthiambutene N-Ethylnorpentylone (Ephylone) Eticyclidine, N-ethyl-l-phenylcyclohexyl-amine Etonitazene Etonitazepyne Etorphine Etoxeridine Etryptamine Eutylone Extract or tincture of cannabis Extract or tincture of coca leaves Extract or tincture of opium Fentanyl Flunitrazepam 

Dangerous Drugs 69 4-Fluoroamphetamine (4-FA) 4-Fluoroisubutyrfentanyl (4-FIBF, pFIBF) Furanyl fentanyl Furethidine Gamma hydroxybutyric acid (GHB) Heroin Hydrocodone Hydromorphinol Hydromorphone 11-hydroxy-deltatetrahydrocannabinol 11-hydroxy-deltatetrahydrocannabinol Hydroxypethidine 2-(4-iodo-2,5-dimethoxyphenyl)-N-(2-methoxybenzyl) ethanamine (25I-NBOMe) Isomethadone Isotonitazene Ketamine Ketobemidone Levomethorphan Levomoramide Levophenacylmorphan Levorphanol (+)-Lysergide, (+)-N-N-diethyllysergamide (d-lysergic acid diethylamide) Mescaline, 3, 4, 5-trimethoxyphenethylamine Metazocine Methadone Methadone-Intermediate Methamphetamine Methcathinone Methoxyacetylfentanyl 5-Methoxy-3, 4-methylenedioxyamphetamine (MMDA) 4-methylaminorex 2-Methyl-AP-237 

70 Laws of Malaysia ACT 234 Methyldesorphine Methyldihydromorphine Methyl 3, 3 -dimethyl(1-(pentenyl)-1H-indazolecarboxamido) butanoate (MDMB-4en-PINACA) Methylenedioxy-amphetamine (MDA) 3, 4-Methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA) 3-methylfentanyl Methyl (2S){[1-(5-fluoropentyl)-1H-indazolecarbonyl] amino}-3,3-dimethylbutanoate (5F-ADB/5F-MDMB-PINACA) Methyl(2S)({1-[(4-fluorophenyl)methyl]-1H-indazolecarbonyl} amino)methylbutanoate (FUB-AMB) 1-methylphenylpiperidinol propionate (MPPP) 3-methylthiofentanyl 4-methylthioamphetamine (4-MTA) Metonitazene Metopon Monoacetylmorphines Moramide-Intermediate Morpheridine Morphine Morphine Methobromide and other pentavalent nitrogen morphine derivatives, including in particul ar the morphine -N-oxide derivatives, one of which is Codeine-N-oxide Morphine-N-oxide Myrophine N-ethyl MDA N-hydroxy MDA N-methyl(3, 4-methylenedioxyphenyl)butanamine Nicomorphine Nimetazepam Noracymethadol 11-nor-deltatetrahydrocannabinolcarboxylic acid Norlevorphanol Normethadone 

Dangerous Drugs 71 Normorphine Norpipanone Ocfentanil Orthofluorofentanyl Oxycodone Oxymorphone Parafluorobutyrylfentanyl Para-fluorofentanyl Parahexyl, 3 -hexylhydroxy-7, 8, 9, 10 -tetrahydro-6, 6, 9 -trimethyl-6H-dibenzo [b, d] pyran Paramethoxyamphetamine (PMA) Para-methoxymethylamphetamine (PMMA) (1-Pentyl-1H-indolyl)(2,2,3,3 tetramethylcyclopropyl) methanone (UR-144) 5-Pentyl(2-phenylpropanyl)-2,5-dihydro-1H-pyrido[4,3-b]indolone (CUMYL-PEGACLONE) Pethidine Pethidine-Intermediate—A Pethidine-Intermediate—B Pethidine-Intermediate—C Phenadoxone Phenampromide Phenazocine 1-phenethylphenylpiperidinol acetate (PEPAP) Phenomorphan Phenoperidine Piminodine Piritramide Proheptazine Properidine Protonitazene Psilocine, Psilotsin, 3-(2-dimethylaminoethyl)hydroxyindole Psilocybine, 3-(2-dimethylaminoethyl)-indolyl dihydrogen phosphate Quinolinyl 1-(5-fluoropentyl)-1H-indolecarboxylate (5F-PB-22) 

72 Laws of Malaysia ACT 234 Racemothorphan Racemoramide Racemorphan Remifentanil Rolicyclidine, 1-(1-phenylcyclohexyl) pyrrolidine Sufentanil Tenocyclidine, 1-[1-(2-thienyl) cyclohexyl] piperidine Tetrahydrocannabinols, 1-hydroxypentyl-6a,7,10, 10a-tetrahydro-6, 6, 9 trimethylH-dibenzo [b, d] pyran Tetrahydrofuranyl fentanyl (THF-F) Thebacon Thebaine Thiofentanyl Tilidine Trimeperidine 3, 4, 5-Trimethoxyamphetamine (3, 4, 5-TMA) Valerylfentanyl The isomers, unless specifically excepted, of the drugs in this Part whenever the existence of such isomers is possible within the specific chemical designation; The esters and ethers, unless appearing in another Part, of the drugs in this Schedule whenever the existence of such esters or ethers is possible; The salts of the drugs listed in this Part, includ ing the salts of esters, ethers and isomers as provided above whenever the existence of such salts is possible. PART IV Acetyldihydrocodeine Codeine Dextropropoxyphene Dihydrocodeine Ethylmorphine Nicocodine Nicodicodine Norcodeine 

Dangerous Drugs 73 Pholcodine Propiram The isomers, unless specifically excepted, of the drugs in this Part whenever the existence of such isomers is possible within the specific chemical designation; The salts of the drugs listed in this Part, including the salts of the isomers as provided above whenever the existence of such salts is possible. PART V PREPARATION FOR THE EXPORT OF WHICH EXPORT AUTHORIZATIONS ARE NOT REQUIRED 1. (Deleted by P.U. (A) 151/2001). 2. Preparations of cocaine containing not more than 0.1 per cent of cocaine calculated as cocaine base and preparations of o pium or morphine containing not more than 0.2 per cent of morphine calculated as anhydrous morphine base and compounded with one or more other ingredients and in such a way that the drug cannot be recovered by re adily applicable means or in a yield which w ould constitute a risk to public health. 3. Preparations of diphenoxylate containing, per dosage unit, not more than 2.5 milligrammes of diphenoxylate calculated as base and a quantity of atropine sulphate equivalent to at least 1 per cent of the dose of diphenoxylate. 4. Pulvis ipecacuanhae et opil compositus 10 per cent opium in powder 10 per cent ipecacuanha root, in powder well mixed with 80 per cent of any other powdered ingredient containing no drug. 4A. Preparations of difenoxin containing, per dosage unit, not more than 0.5 milligrammes of difenoxin and a quantity of atropine sulphate equivalent to at least 5 per cent of the dose of difenoxin. 4B. Preparations for oral use containing not more than 150 milligrammes of dextropropoxyphene salts per dosage unit or with a concentration of not more than 2.5 per cent in undivided preparations. 5. Preparations conforming to any of the formulae listed in this Part and mixtures of such preparations with any material which contains no drug. ________________ 

74 Laws of Malaysia ACT 234 SECOND SCHEDULE MALAYSIA DANGEROUS DRUGS ACT 1952 [Subsection 20(2)] FORM A Serial No.... File No.... INTERNATIONAL OPIUM CONVENTIONS CERTIFICATE OF APPROVAL OF IMPORT In pursuance of the Dangerous Drugs Act 1952, I, the officer to whom authority is delegated under section 44, hereby certify that I have approved the importation by (a)............................................................................................................... .................. ...................................................................................................................................... (Here insert name and full postal address of importer.) of (b)............................................................................................................................. ……………………………………………………………………………………….. (Here insert the description and amount of the drugs to be imported.) from(c)......................................................................................................................... ............................................................................................................................. ......... ...................................................................................................................................... ............................................................................................................................. ......... (Here insert name and address of firm in exporting country from which drug is to be obtained.) subject to the conditions that— (i) the consignment shall be imported before the (date) (ii) the consignment shall be imported by (iii) the consignment shall be imported through the Customs Office at (iv) the consignment shall follow the route (v) the consignment (shall not be)/(may be) imported through the post; and I certify that I am satisfied that the consignment proposed to be imported is required— 

Dangerous Drugs 75 (1) for legitimate purposes (in the case of raw opium and the coca leaf, po ppy- straw and cannabis); (2) solely for medicin al or scientific purposes (in the case of drugs and preparations included in Schedules I, II and III to the Single Convention). Date............................. (Signature and Stamp) ________________ MALAYSIA DANGEROUS DRUGS ACT 1952 [Subsection 19(1)] FORM B Serial No: Applicant’s Reference No: File No: INTERNATIONAL OPIUM CONVENTIONS EXPORT AUTHORIZATION In pursuance of the Dan gerous Drugs Act 1952, I, the officer to who m authority is delegated under section 44, hereby authorize (a) ........................................................ ...........................................(Name, address and business of exporter)…………….……………………... ...................................................................................................................................... ............................................................................ hereinafter called “the exporter” ) to export from— (1) *the port of .......................................by s.s ................................................... (2) *...................................................by parcel post in ………........................... parcels from the Post Office in ..................................................................... (*Strike out words not applicable) to (b) ........................................................................................................................... . ......................................(Name and address of firm in importing country)......................................... ……………...………................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................................................... .....................................................in virtue of Import Certificate No. .......................... dated..........................................issued by......................................................... for the following drugs, namely: 

76 Laws of Malaysia ACT 234 This Authorization is issued subject to the following conditions: 1. This Authorization is not a licence to obtain or be in possession of the drugs named herein. 2. This Authorization is ava ilable only for drugs of the exact quantity, kind and form specified above. 3. This Authorization does not relieve the exporter from compliance with any Customs regulations in force for the time being relating to the exportation of goods from Malaysia nor from any provision of the *Postal Services Act 2012 [Act 741], or of any Post Office Rules for the time being in force, nor from any rules or regulations respecting the transmission of articles by post which may for the time being be in force, whether within Malaysia or elsewhere. 4. If the drugs are authorized to be exported by ship the duplicate copy, which is attached, shall accompany the consignment to the place of destination, and for this purpose the exporter sh all cause it to be delivered to the master o f the vessel by which the consignment is despatched. [See footnote (3)]. 5. If the drugs are authorized to be exported by post the attached duplicate copy shall be placed inside the outer wrapper of the parcel containing the drug. If the drugs are contained in more than one parcel the duplicate copy shall be placed inside the outer wrapper of one of them; the parcels shall be consecutively numbered on the outer wrapper, and on each parcel there shall be legibly stat ed the number of the parcel in which the dup licate copy is to be found. [ See footnote (2)]. 6. The exporter, if so required by the Director General of Customs and Excise or the **Malaysian Communications and Multimedia Commission, shall produce to him, within such time as he may allow, proof, to his s atisfaction, that the said drugs were duly delivered at the destination named in this Authorization, and in the event of non -compliance with this condition the Authorization shall be deemed void and of no effect. 7. The exporter shall furnish to the officer to whom authority is delegated under section 44 of the Dangerous Drugs Act 1952, such returns of the goods exported by him in pursuance of this Authorization as may from time to time be required. 8. This Authorization is valid only for the exporter named abo ve and may be revoked at any time by the officer to whom authority is delegated under section 44 of the Dangerous Drugs Act 1952. It shall be produced for inspection when required by any duly authorized person. *NOTE—This Act has replaced the Postal Services Act 1991 [Act 465]–see section 110 of Act 741. **NOTE—see paragraphs 2(b) and (d) of Postal Services (Amendment) Act 2001 [Act A1120]. 

Dangerous Drugs 77 9. This Authorization, unless sooner revoked, shall continue in force for three calendar months from the date hereof. It must be produced, at the time of export, to an officer of the Customs Department/the Post Office , who will retain it. *(Strike out the words not applicable.) If not used it shall be surrendered to the officer to whom authority is delegated as aforesaid within seven days of the date of its expiry. Date…………………………… (Signature and Stamp) ___________________________________________________________________ NOTE— (1) If any altera tion is desired in this Authorization it must be returned with a request for amendment and a statement of the reasons therefor. No unauthorized alteration is permissible. (2) In the case of drugs exported by post failu re to comply with this con dition may lead to delay o r confiscation of the parcels in the country of destination. (3) In the case of drugs for the export of whic h this document is req uired in pursuance of the Single Convention, Article 31, to be produced to the competent authoritie s of any country through which the consignment passes, whether it is transhipped or not. Failure to comply with the condition may lead to delay or confiscation of the consignment. _______________ 

78 Laws of Malaysia ACT 234 MALAYSIA DANGEROUS DRUGS ACT 1952 [Subsection 20(1)] FORM C Authorization No. File No. INTERNATIONAL OPIUM CONVENTIONS IMPORT AUTHORIZATION In pursuance of the Dangerous Drugs Act 1952, I, the officer to whom authority is delegated under section 44, hereby authorize* ........................................................... ........................................... (*Here insert name and full postal address of importer.) (hereinafter called “the importer”) to import the drug s specified in the Schedule hereto, from** ..…………………………............................................................................................ .......................................................................(**Here insert name and full postal address of exporter.) This Authorization is issued subject to the following conditions: 1. The drugs shall be imported before (date……………………...............). 2. This Authorization is not a licence to be in possession of or to supply the drugs imported. 3. This Au thorization does not relieve the importer from complia nce with any Customs regulations in force for the time being relating to the importation of goods into or transhipment of goods in Malaysia, or any Post Office Rules for the time being in force in Malaysia. 4. This Authorization is valid only for the importer and may be revoked at any time by the Minister to whom it shall in that event be immediately surrendered. It shall be produced for inspection when required by any duly authorized person. 5. This Authoriz ation unless sooner revoked shall be produced to the Customs Officer at the time of importation and shall be surrendered to the Customs Officer at the time when the last consignment of drugs is imported. 6. If the importation of all the drugs specified in the Schedule hereto is not effected before the date spec ified in condition No. 1 this Authorization shall immediately after that date be surrendered to the officer to whom authority is delegated under section 44 of the Dangerous Drugs Act 1952. 

Dangerous Drugs 79 7. The copy of the Export Authorization, if any, which accompanies th e drugs shall be forwarded to the officer to whom authority is delegated under section 44 as aforesaid immediately the importation of the drugs has been effected. Date…………………………… (Signature and Stamp) SCHEDULE Specifying the drugs and quantities thereof to be imported This Authorization is not to leave the possession of the importer until it is surrendered to the officer to whom authority is delegated und er section 44 or to the Customs Officer who will compl ete the certificate on the back and return the Authorization to the officer to whom authority is delegated under section 44 of the Dangerous Drugs Act 1952. ENDORSEMENT BY CUSTOMS OFFICER AT THE TIME OF IMPORTATION Date 1 Description of drugs imported 2 Number and date of export Authorization 3 Quantity 4 How imported 5 Customs entry or Parcel No. 6 Signature mark and station of Customs Officer 7 e.g. ex……… (in the case of ship), or by registered parcel post or by insured box post This Authorization, when all the drugs to which it relates have been imported, must be returned by the Customs Officer to the officer to whom authority is delegated under section 44 of the Dangerous Drugs Act 1952. ________________ 

80 Laws of Malaysia ACT 234 MALAYSIA DANGEROUS DRUGS ACT 1952 [Subsection 22(1)] FORM D INTERNATIONAL OPIUM CONVENTIONS LICENCE FOR THE REMOVAL OF DANGEROUS DRUGS IN TRANSIT In pursuance of the Dangerous Drugs Act 1952 , I, being the officer to whom authority is delegated under section 44, hereby authorize*......................................... ............................................................................................................................. ......... ...................................................(*Here insert name and full postal address of importer.) to remove the dangerous drugs described hereunder from ........................................................... ...................................................................................................................................... .................................... to ..................................................................................... ........ Nature and quantity of dangerous drugs Particulars of export authorization (or diversion certificate) if any relating thereto Name of ship (or particulars of other conveyance) on which the drugs were brought into Malaysia Date of arrival Number of packages Marks and numbers on packages This licence is issued subject to the following conditions: (1) This licence is valid only for the removal of the drugs specified above. (2) The removal of the drugs shall take place between A.M A.M and on the 20 P.M P.M (3) If the removal of the drugs does not take place wi thin the hours and on the day specified, this licence must be returned to the officer to whom authority is delegated under section 44 of the Dangerous Drugs Act 1952, forthwith; and in any case shall be surrendered when the removal has taken place. 

Dangerous Drugs 81 (4) The dr ugs must not be moved unless an officer of the Customs Department is present. (5) This licence does not authorize the person named above to be in possession of the drugs otherwise than for the purpose of removing them in accordance with this licence. (6) The packages containing the drugs are not to be opened or broken in the course of the removal. (7) This licence shall be produced at any time when required by a duly authorized person. Date…………………………… (Signature and Stamp) ________________ MALAYSIA DANGEROUS DRUGS ACT 1952 [Subsection 24(1)] FORM E INTERNATIONAL OPIUM CONVENTIONS DIVERSION CERTIFICATE I, being the officer to whom authority is delegated under section 44 of the Dangerous Drugs Act 1952, hereby certif y that I have authorized the diversion of the consignment of drugs, of which particulars are given below, to the destination stated below: Description and quantities of drugs Name of ship (or particul ars of other conveyance) on which the consignment was brought to Malaysia Name and address of the exporter Date of export authorization and authority by whom issued Name and address of original consignee named in the export authorization 

82 Laws of Malaysia ACT 234 Name and address of consignee to whom the consignment is authorized to be diverted Number and date of import certificate (and authority by whom issued) by virtue of which this diversion is authorized Name of ship (or particulars of other conveyance) on which the consi gnment is authorized to be carried from Malaysia Period within which the consignment is carried from Malaysia. This certificate is issued subject to the following conditions: (1) The duplicate copy of this certificate shall accompany the consignment to the place of destination and for this purpose shall be del ivered to the master of the ship or aircraft (or to the person in charge of other conveyance) by which the consignment is despatched. (2) This certificate does not relieve any person who may be concerned w ith the carriage of the consignment of drugs specified above from compliance with any Customs regulations in force for the time being relating to the exportation of goods from Malaysia. (3) This certificate is valid only for the consignment and for the period specified above, and may be revoked at any time. (4) If the consignment of drugs is not carried from Malaysia within the period specified above, this certificate shall be surrendered to the officer to whom authority is delegated under section 44 of the Dangerous Drugs Act 1952. (5) This certificate shall be produc ed at any time when required by a duly authorized person. Date…………………………… (Signature and Stamp) ___________________________________________________________________ NOTE— (1) If any alteration is desired in this Autho rization, it must be returned with a request for amendment and a statement for the reasons therefor. No unauthorized alteration is permissible. (2) This document is required in pursuance of the Single Conv ention, Article 31 to be produced to the competent authorities of any country through which the consignment passes, whether it is transhipped or not. Failure to comply with the condition may lead to delay or confiscation of the consignment. 

Dangerous Drugs 83 THIRD SCHEDULE [Section 50] REPEAL No. Short title S.S. Cap. 190 The Deleterious Drugs Ordinance S.S. Cap. 223 The Chandu Revenue Ordinance F.M.S. Cap. 134 The Opium and Chandu Enactment F.M.S. Cap. 183 The Deleterious Drugs Enactment Johore Enact. No. 96 The Deleterious Drugs Enactment Johore Enact. No. 111 The Opium and Chandu Enactment Kedah Enact. No. 3 of 1348 Enactment No. 29 (Deleterious Drugs) Kedah Enact. No. 8 of 1356 The Chandu Enactment Kelantan Enact. No. 3 of 1928 The Opium and Chandu Enactment 1928 Kelantan Enact. No. 15 of 1938 The Deleterious Drugs Enactment Trengganu Enact. No. 2 of 1352 The Chandu Enactment Trengganu Enact. No. 62 of 1356 The Deleterious Drugs Enactment Perlis Enact. No. 10 of 1356 The Chandu Enactment 1356 Perlis Enact. No. 2 of 1348 The Deleterious Drugs Enactment 1348 B.M.A. Proclamation No. 49 The Opium and Chandu Proclamation Sabah Cap. 100 The Poisons and Deleterious Drugs Ordinance Sarawak Cap. 119 The Dangerous Drugs Ordinance Sarawak Cap. 121 The Poisons Ordinance ______________________________ 

84 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 234 DANGEROUS DRUGS ACT 1952 LIST OF AMENDMENTS Amending law Short title In force from L.N. 336/1956 Dangerous Drugs Order 1956 251956 L.N. 185/1958 Dangerous Drugs Order 1958 031958 L.N. 332/1958 Federal Constitution (Modification of Laws) (Ordinances and Proclamations) Order 1958 131958 L.N. 165/1961 Dangerous Drugs Order 1961 181961 L.N. 60/1963 Dangerous Drugs Order 1963 071963 Act 64/1966 Dangerous Drugs (Amendment) Act 1966 191966 P.U. (A) 85/1969 Dangerous Drugs Order 1969 141969 P.U. (A) 67/1971 Emergency (Esse ntial Powers) Ordinance No. 82, 1971 191971 Act A112 Dangerous Drugs (Amendment) Act 1972 041972 Act A194 Dangerous Drugs (Amendment) Act 1973 011973 P.U. (A) 164/1974 Dangerous Drugs Order 1974 101974 P.U. (A) 233/1974 Dangerous Drugs Order (No. 2) 1974 051974 Act A293 Dangerous Drugs (Amendment) Act 1975 301975 Act A318 Dangerous Drugs (Amendment) (No. 2) Act 1975 051975 

Dangerous Drugs 85 Amending law Short title In force from Act A330 Dangerous Drugs (Amendment) Act 1976 271976 P.U. (A) 321/1976 Dangerous Drugs Order 1976 151976 Act A389 Dangerous Dru gs (Amendment) Act 1977 151977 Act A390 Dangerous Drugs (Amendment) (No. 2) Act 1977 181977 Act A413 Dangerous Drugs (Amendment) (No. 3) Act 1977 151977 Act A426 Dangerous Drugs (Amendment) Act 1978 101978 P.U. (A) 157/1978 Modification of Laws (Dangerous Drugs and Poisons) (Extension and Modification) Order 1978 011978 211981 Act A434 Subordinate Courts (Amendment) Act 1978 011978 Act A491 Dangerous Drugs (Amendment) Act 1980 301980 P.U. (A) 69/1981 Dangerous Drugs (A mendment) Order 1981 201981 P.U. (A) 116/1981 Dangerous Drugs (Amendment) (No. 2) Order 1981 241981 P.U. (A) 240/1981 Corrigendum to P.U. (A) 69/1981 201981 P.U. (A) 241/1981 Corrigendum to P.U.(A) 116/1981 241981 P.U. (A) 242/1981 Dangerous Drugs (Amendment) (No. 3) Order 1981 211981 Act A553 Dangerous Drugs (Amendment) Act 1983 151983 except s.7: 151977 and s. 17: 301980 Act 283 Drug Dependants (Treatment and Rehabilitation) Act 1983 161983 P.U. (A) 263/1984 Dangerous Drugs (Amendment) Order 1984 271984 

86 Laws of Malaysia ACT 234 Amending law Short title In force from Act A596 Dangerous Drugs (Amendment) Act 1984 071984 P.U. (A) 319/1985 Dangerous Drugs (Amendment) Order 1985 191985 P.U. (A) 120/1986 Dangerous Drugs (Amendment) Order 1986 181986 P.U. (A) 225/1986 Dangerous Drugs (Amendment) (No. 2) Order 1986 111986 Act A659 Dangerous Drugs (Amendment) Act 1986 011987 P.U. (A) 174/1988 Dangerous Drugs (Amendment) Order 1988 031988 P.U. (A) 14/1991 Dangerous Drugs (Amendment) Order 1991 251991 Act A834 Dangerous Drugs (Amendment) Act 1992 041992 P.U. (A) 170/1996 Dangerous Drugs (Amendment of First Schedule) Order 1996 121996 P.U. (A) 500/1997 Dangerous Drugs (Amendment) Order 1997 191997 P.U. (A) 135/1998 Dangerous Drugs ( Amendment) Order 1998 101998 Act A1025 Dangerous Drugs (Amendment) Act 1998 151998 P.U. (A) 320/1999 Dangerous Drugs (Amendment) Order 1999 131999 P.U. (A) 151/2001 Dangerous Drugs (Amendment of First Schedule) Order 2001 252001 P.U. (A) 145/2002 Dangerous Drugs (Amendment of First Schedule) Order 2002 192002 P.U. (A) 339/2002 Dangerous Drugs (Amendment of First Schedule) (No. 2) Order 2002 232002 Act A1167 Dangerous Drugs (Amendment) Act 2002 012002 

Dangerous Drugs 87 Amending law Short title In force from P.U. (A) 44/2003 Revision of Laws (Rectification of Dangerous Drugs Act 1952) Order 2003 072003 Act A1457 Dangerous Drugs (Amendment) Act 2014 152014 P.U. (A) 267/2017 Dangerous Drugs (Amendment of First Schedule) Order 2017 222017 Act A1558 Dangerous Drugs (Amen dment) Act 2017 152018 P.U. (A) 10/2019 Dangerous Drugs (Amendment of First Schedule) Order 2019 112019 P.U. (A) 296/2021 Dangerous Drugs (Amendment of First Schedule) Order 2021 062021 P.U. (A) 40/2023 Dangerous Drugs (Amendment of First Schedule) Order 2023 152023 P.U. (A) 53/2023 Dangerous Drugs (Amendment of First Schedule) (No.2) Order 2023 022023 Act 846 Abolition of Mandatory Death Penalty Act 2023 042023 P.U. (A) 97/2024 Dangerous Drugs (Amendment of First Schedule) Order 2024 032024 P.U. (A) 416/2025 Dangerous Drugs (Amendment of First Schedule) Order 2025 262025 

88 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 234 DANGEROUS DRUGS ACT 1952 LIST OF SECTIONS AMENDED Section Amending authority In force from Long title Act A426 Act 283 101978 161983 2 Act A112 Act A390 Act A426 Act A491 Act A553 Act 283 Act A596 Act A659 Act A834 Act A1025 Act A1167 041972 181977 101978 301980 151983 161983 071984 011987 041992 151998 012002 3 Act A491 301980 4 Act A112 Act A194 041972 011973 5 Act A194 011973 6 Act A112 Act A330 Act A659 041972 271976 011987 6A Act A293 Act A553 301975 151983 6B Act A330 271976 7 Act A112 041972 8 Act A112 Act A553 041972 151983 9 Act A112 Act A293 041972 301975 

Dangerous Drugs 89 Section Amending authority In force from Act A553 Act A659 Act A1167 151983 011987 012002 10 Act A112 Act A553 041972 151983 11 Act A112 041972 12 Act A112 Act A194 Act A1025 041972 011973 151998 13 Act A112 Act A194 041972 011973 14 Act A112 041972 15 Act A112 Act A1167 041972 012002 16 Act A112 Act A1025 041972 151998 17 L.N. 336/1956 Act A112 Act A194 251956 041972 011973 18 Act A112 041972 19 Act A194 011973 20 Act A194 011973 21 Act A194 011973 22 Act A112 Act A194 041972 011973 23 Act A194 011973 24 Act A194 011973 25A-P Act A389 Act A413 Act A553 Act 283 151977 151977 151983 161983 27 Act A112 Act A491 041972 301980 27A Act A553 151983 

90 Laws of Malaysia ACT 234 Section Amending authority In force from 30 Act 64/1966 Act A194 191966 011973 30A Act A194 011973 31 Act A553 151983 31A Act A553 Act A1167 Act A1457 151983 012002 152014 31B Act A553 151983 37 Act A390 Act A553 Act A596 Act A659 Act A1025 Act A1167 181977 151983 071984 011987 151998 012002 37A Act A293 Act A389 Act A553 Act A1457 301975 151977 151983 152014 37B Act A293 Act A389 Act A1457 301975 151977 152014 38 Act A194 011973 38A Act 283 Act A1025 161983 151998 38B Act 283 Act A1025 161983 151998 39 Act A194 011973 39A Act A194 Act A293 Act A553 Act A596 Act A659 Act A1025 Act A1167 011973 301975 151983 071984 011987 151998 012002 39B Act A293 Act A318 Act A553 Act A1558 Act 846 301975 051975 151983 152018 042023 

Dangerous Drugs 91 Section Amending authority In force from 39C Act A1167 012002 40 Act A596 071984 40A Act A390 Act A596 181977 071984 41 Act 64/1966 Act A434 Act A426 Act A553 191966 011978 101987 151983 41A Act A318 Act A426 Act A553 051975 101978 151983 41B Act A426 101978 42A Act A194 011973 45 Act A112 041972 45A Act A112 041972 47 Act A194 011973 48 Act A553 151983 First Schedule L.N. 336/1956 L.N. 185/1958 L.N. 165/1961 L.N. 60/1963 P.U. (A) 85/1969 Act A112 P.U. (A) 164/1974 P.U. (A) 233/1974 P.U. (A) 321/1976 P.U. (A) 69/1981 P.U. (A) 116/1981 P.U. (A) 242/1981 P.U. (A) 263/1984 Act A596 P.U. (A) 319/1985 P.U. (A) 120/1986 P.U. (A) 225/1986 P.U. (A) 174/1988 P.U. (A) 14/1991 P.U. (A) 170/1996 P.U. (A) 500/1997 P.U. (A) 135/1998 P.U. (A) 320/1999 251956 031958 181961 071963 141969 041972 011974 021974 151976 201981 241981 211981 271984 071984 191985 181986 111986 031988 251991 121996 191997 101998 131999 

92 Laws of Malaysia ACT 234 Section Amending authority In force from P.U. (A) 151/2001 P.U. (A) 145/2002 P.U. (A) 339/2002 P.U. (A) 267/2017 P.U. (A) 10/2019 P.U. (A) 296/2021 P.U. (A) 40/2023 P.U. (A) 53/2023 P.U. (A) 97/2024 P.U. (A) 416/2025 252001 192002 232002 222017 112019 062021 152023 022023 032024 262025 Second Schedule Act A112 041972