LAWS OF MALAYSIA ONLINE VERSION OF UPDATED TEXT OF REPRINT Act 243 BINTULU PORT AUTHORITY ACT 1981 As at 1 July 2015 

2 BINTULU PORT AUTHORITY ACT 1981 Date of Royal Assent … … 4 February 1981 Date of publication in the Gazette … … 5 February 1981 Latest amendment made by Act A937 which came into operation on … … … … 10 November 1995 PREVIOUS REPRINTS First Reprint … … … 2001 Second Reprint … … … 2006 

3 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 243 BINTULU PORT AUTHORITY ACT 1981 ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS PART I PRELIMINARY Section 1. Short title and commencement 2. Interpretation PART II BINTULU PORT AUTHORITY 3. Establishment of Bintulu Port Authority 4. Constitution of Authority 5. Functions of Authority 5A. Power of Authority to enter into any arrangement for sharing of profits, etc. 5B. Additional function of the Authority 6. Duties of Authority 7. Powers of Minister in relation to Authority 8. Power of Authority as to property 9. Acquisition of immovable property by Authority 9A. Disposal of land 10. Power of Authority to lease or grant licences in respect of foreshore 

4 Laws of Malaysia ACT 243 Section 11. Port Consultative Committee 12. Working capital of Authority 13. Finances and accounts of Authority 13A. Power to borrow money 14. Investment of moneys not immediately required to be expended, and contributions to charity 15. Inspection and audit of accounts 16. Books of accounts and records to be kept at head office 17. Statutory Bodies (Accounts and Annual Reports) Act 1980 to apply 18. Authority to furnish Minister with certain returns and other reports and information 19. Estimates of revenue and expenditure 20. Supplementary estimates PART III OFFICERS AND SERVANTS 21. Appointment of officers and servants 22. Establishment of Port security force 23. Duties of General Manager 24. Power to make rules 25. Public servants for purposes of Penal Code 26. Application of Public Authorities Protection Act 1948 and protection from personal liability PART IV CHARGES AND RECOVERY OF CHARGES 27. Authority may levy charges 27A. Submission of memorandum for any change in existing structure of charges 28. Charges to become due and payable where request withdrawn without reasonable notice 29. Recovery of charges in arrears 30. Recovery of pilotage dues 31. Power to sell goods remaining in custody 

Bintulu Port Authority 5 Section 32. Power to compound or compromise claim or demand 33. Power to distrain for non-payment of charges PART V LIABILITY OF THE AUTHORITY 34. Limitation of Authority’s liability in other matters 35. Liability in respect of loading or discharging operations 36. Goods deposited for lighterage or shipment 37. Loss, destruction of or damage to goods other than transhipment goods deposited with Authority 38. Loss or destruction of or damage to transhipment goods deposited with Authority 39. Force majeure, etc. 40. Limitation of liability in respect of one occasion 41. Exemption from liability for failure to run ferry boat as advertised 42. Power of High Court to consolidate claims 43. Liability for loss under contract PART VI PORT, WHARVES AND PREMISES 44. Control of foreshores 45. Landing or shipping of cargo over quays, wharves, etc. 46. Construction of quays, wharves, etc. 47. Permit for conveyance of goods 48. Appeal 49. Minister may appoint any place for use as customs collecting centre 50. Licensed warehouse 51. Power of Authority to order vessels to come alongside 52. Government vessels 

6 Laws of Malaysia ACT 243 PART VII PILOTAGE Section 53. Declaration of pilotage district 54. Vessels of certain tonnage to be under pilotage 55. Authority to employ pilots 55A. Power of Pilotage Committee to license employees of a licensed operator 55B. Vessel to be piloted by Authority pilot or a licensed person 56. Appointment and functions of Pilotage Committee 57. Constitution of Pilotage Committee 58. Rules in relation to Pilotage Committee 59. Examination for and issue of licence to act as pilot 60. Inquiries by Pilotage Committee 61. Submission of Pilotage Committee’s findings and recommendations to Authority 62. Liability of master or owner in case of vessel under pilotage 63. Limitation of Authority pilot’s liability when bond is given 64. Pilotage Committee and Authority not liable for loss or damage occasioned by pilot 65. Summary proceedings 66. By-laws regulating pilotage and conduct of pilots PART VIIA EXTENSION OF THE FUNCTIONS, ETC., OF THE PORT AUTHORITY TO OTHER PORTS 66A. Power of Minister to extend Authority’s functions to other ports 66B. The authority in carrying out its extended functions shall be deemed to be an independent port authority 66C. Power of Minister to make provisions for the Authority to carry out its functions 66D. Interpretation 

Bintulu Port Authority 7 PART VIII BY-LAWS Section 67. By-laws PART IX OFFENCES, DAMAGES, PENALTIES AND PROCEDURES 68. Refusal or neglect to appear before Auditor General or to produce books for inspection 69. Penalty for evading rates or charges 70. List of all goods imported or exported to be left at office of Authority 71. Penalties to extend as well to principals as servants 72. Penalty for disobeying orders of wharf superintendent 72A. Penalty for hindrances or obstructions to any member, officer or servant of the Authority 73. Penalty for not keeping vessel so loaded with ballast or otherwise as to be safely removed 74. Powers of General Manager or authorized person to order scuttling or removal of vessel in case of fire 75. Boarding of vessel when commission of offence suspected 76. Penalties as to employment of pilot other than Authority pilot 77. Receiving or offering improper rates of pilotage 78. Offences by Authority pilot 79. Penalty on pilot endangering ship, life or limb 80. Failure to employ Authority pilot or licensed pilot under certain circumstances 81. Penalty for false information on draught 82. Penalty for giving false statement in return 83. Penalty for throwing ballast, etc., into dock 83A. Authority to recover expenses incurred for act done pursuant to a lawful direction 84. General penalty 84A. Penalty for contravening section 44 or 45 84B. Offence committed by a body corporate: officers deemed to be guilty 

8 Laws of Malaysia ACT 243 Section 85. Evasion of rates or charges not waived by subsequent acceptance of payment 86. Recovery of damages for injury to property of Authority 87. Offence may be tried by Magistrate’s Court 88. Distress in the event of failure to pay damages or costs 89. Limitation of period of prosecution 89A. Power to compound offence 90. Service on company of summons 91. Conduct of prosecution PART IXA SPECIAL POWERS 91A. Special powers in emergency PART X TRANSFER, TRANSITIONAL AND GENERAL 92. Transfer of responsibility, etc., from Federal Government to Authority 93. Minister may appoint persons on temporary basis for purposes of this Act SCHEDULE 

9 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 243 BINTULU PORT AUTHORITY ACT 1981 An Act to provide for the establishment of the Bintulu Port Authority, for the transfer to and vesting in the Authority of responsibility for the development, control and administration of Bintulu Port and for all other matters and things necessary therefor, incidental thereto or connected therewith. [section 93—1 May 1981, P.U. (B) 257/1981; All provisions except section 92—15 August 1981, P.U. (B) 458/1981; section 92—16 August 1981, Act A937] BE IT ENACTED by the Seri Paduka Baginda Yang di -Pertuan Agong with the advice and consent of the Dewan Negara and Dewan Rakyat in Parliament assembled, and by the authority of the same, as follows: PART I PRELIMINARY Short title and commencement 1. (1) This Act may be cited as the Bintulu Port Authority Act 1981 and shall com e into force on such date as the Minister may, by notification in the Gazette, appoint and he may appoint different dates for the coming into force of different provisions. (2) Notwithstanding subsection (1), section 92 shall be deemed to have come into force on 16 August 1981. (3) Any act or thing done or any money collected, expended or invested by the Authority before the commencement of this Act that 

10 Laws of Malaysia ACT 243 would have been lawful if the provisions of this Act had been in force at the time when it was done is hereby validated and declared to have been lawfully done or collected, expended or invested by it. Interpretation 2. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires— “Authority” means the Bintulu Port Authority established under section 3; “Authority pilot” means a pilot employed by the Authority under section 55; “Chairman” means the Chairman of the Authority appointed under paragraph 4(1)(a); “charges” includes tolls, dues, rents and other rates leviable under this Act or any rules or by-laws made thereunder; “docks” includes basins, locks, cuts, entrances, graving-docks, keel- blocks, inclined -planes, slipways, gridirons, quays, warehouses and other works and things appertaining to docks; “General Manager” means the General Manager of the Port appointed under section 21; “goods” includes livestock, minerals, wares, gases of every form and merchandise of every description; “Government” and “Federal Government” mean the Government of Malaysia; “land” includes the bed of the sea below high-water mark; “licensed operator” means a licensed operator licensed under Part III of the Ports (Privatization) Act 1990 [Act 422]; “licensed warehouse” means a warehouse or other place licensed for the warehousing of dutiable goods under section 65 of the Customs Act 1967 [Act 235]; 

Bintulu Port Authority 11 “master” includes every person, except a pilot, having for the time being the command or charge of any vessel; “Minister” and “Minister of Finance” mean the Federal Ministers charged with responsibility respective ly for ports and harbours, and for finance; “owner”, when used in relation to goods, includes a consignor, consignee, shipper or an agent for the sale, custody, shipping or landing of those goods; and, when used in relation to a vessel, includes a part -owner, charterer, consignee or mortgagee in possession of the vessel; “pier” includes a stage, stairs, a landing -place, landing-stage, jetty, floating barge or pontoon and a bridge, and other works connected therewith; “pilotage district” means an area in the Port or the approaches to the Port declared under section 53 to be a pilotage district; “Port” means Bintulu Port within the limits of the area declared under section 3 of the Act; “rates” includes tolls, dues, rents, and other charges leviable under this Act or any rules or by-laws made thereunder; “ship” includes every description of vessel used in navigation not propelled by oars; “the Act” means the Declaration of an Area in the Bintulu District to be a Federal Port Act 1979 [Act 217]; “vehicle” includes a carriage travelling on its own wheels or runners and used or intended to be used for the conveyance or carriage of persons, animals or goods; “vessel” includes a ship or boat and any other description of vessel used in navigation; “wharf” includes any wall and building adjoining the foreshore, sea-bed or a river-bed; 

12 Laws of Malaysia ACT 243 “wharf superintendent” means the officer employed by the Authority to be in charge of the management of the wharves and docks of the Authority. PART II BINTULU PORT AUTHORITY Establishment of Bintulu Port Authority 3. (1) There is established in respect of Bintulu Port a port authority to be known as the Bintulu Port Authority. (2) The Authority shall— (a) be a body corporate with perpetual succession and a common seal; (b) subject to sections 8 and 10, be capable of purchasing or otherwise acquiring, being vested with by way of gift or otherwise, holding or disposing of, movable and immovable property, including any interest therein; (c) be capable of entering into contr acts, suing and being sued; and the Authority may do and suffer all such other acts and things as bodies corporate may do and suffer. Constitution of Authority 4. (1) The Authority shall consist of— (a) a Chairman who shall be appointed by the Minister; (b) the General Manager; and (c) not less than five nor more than nine members to be appointed by the Minister: 

Bintulu Port Authority 13 Provided that it shall be lawful for the Minister to appoint the General Manager to be the Chairman. (2) Where the Chairman is a person other than the General Manager, then unless the Minister appoints any of the members appointed under paragraph (1) (c) to be the Deputy Chairman of the Authority, the General Manager shall be the Deputy Chairman. (3) A temporary Chairman or temporary member may be appointed as provided in subsection (1) during the temporary incapacity through illness, or during the temporary absence from the State of Sarawak or from Malaysia, of the Chairman or member, and the provisions of this Act which apply in relation to the Cha irman or member (including a person to be so appointed) shall mutatis mutandis apply in relation to a temporary Chairman or temporary member (including the person to be so appointed). (4) The Authority may act notwithstanding a vacancy in its membership, and no act of the Authority shall be invalid by reason only of some defect in the appointment of any of its members or on the ground that any person acting as a member thereof has ceased to be such member. (5) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Act or any other written law, the Minister may remove from office the Chairman or any of the members of the Authority without assigning any reason therefor. (6) The provisions of the Schedule shall have effect with respect to the Authority and its members. Functions of Authority 5. (1) The functions of the Authority shall be to develop, control and administer and otherwise operate and maintain the Port, and for the performance of its functions it shall have the powers and duties provided under this Act. 

14 Laws of Malaysia ACT 243 (2) The Authority shall have power to do all things reasonably necessary for or incidental to the discharge of its functions, and in particular— (a) to undertake all or any work of every description in connection with the Port as the Authority may t hink fit, or authorize by way of licence any person to undertake such work, subject to rules or by -laws made by the Authority, and such licence may contain such conditions as the Authority may think fit to impose; (b) to construct, maintain and use wharv es, docks, piers and bridges within the limits of the area vested in the Authority, with all necessary and convenient arches, drains, culverts, fences, roads, railways and approaches; (c) subject to the provisions of this Act, to levy such port dues and such general charges upon goods or cargo loaded or discharged in the Port as the Authority may think necessary for the maintenance, improvement or development of the Port; (d) to control the berthing and movement of all vessels, whether in the road or alongsid e a quay, wharf, pier or landing-place vested in or under the control of the Authority; (e) to purchase or otherwise acquire or construct, and to maintain and use, engines, firefloats and other appliances for the purpose of extinguishing fire on the property of the Authority and in the Port; (f) to purchase or otherwise acquire or construct, and to maintain and operate, vessels for the purpose of towing or rendering assistance to any vessel (whether in the territorial waters of Malaysia or on the high seas and whether entering or leaving the Port or bound elsewhere) and for the purpose of saving life or property or recovering property lost, sunk or stranded; (g) to supply water to shipping in the Port; 

Bintulu Port Authority 15 (h) to purchase or otherwise acquire or construct, and to maintain and operate, ferry vessels to carry passengers, vehicles and goods, and use the same for plying for hire; (i) to carry on the business of bunkerers and of suppliers of stores and materials to ships; (j) to purchase or otherwise acquire or construct, and to maintain and, within the limits of the area vested in the Authority, operate such facilities including railways, warehouses, sheds, engines, cranes, scales and other appliances for conveying, receiving, handling and storing goods to be landed or shipped or otherwise dealt with by the Authority; (k) to carry on the business of builders and repairers of ships and machinery; (l) to purchase or otherwise acquire or construct, and to lay and maintain, moorings; (m) to purchase or otherwise acquire or constr uct, and to maintain and operate, all means and appliances for berthing, loading and discharging of vessels; (n) to purchase or otherwise acquire or construct, and to maintain and moor, vessels and hulks for the storage and working of cargo and goods; (o) to reclaim, excavate, enclose or raise any part of the area vested in the Authority; (p) to clean, deepen or improve any part of the Port, and for any of such purposes to purchase or otherwise acquire or construct, and to maintain and operate, dredg ers or other appliances; (q) to erect or cause to be erected buildings on any part of the area vested in the Authority; (r) to take such action as the Authority may think fit in relation to works without the limits of the area vested in it 

16 Laws of Malaysia ACT 243 as are necessary for the protection of works belonging to it within the limits of the area vested in it; (s) to be an insurer of goods in its custody. (t) (Deleted by Act A831). (2A) The Authority may, with the approval of the Minister, grant a licence on such c onditions as the Authority may think fit to any company, firm, person or persons to undertake any activities in the Port as may appear to the Authority to be necessary. (3) Subsection 3(1) of the *Insurance Act 1963 [Act 89] shall not apply to the Autho rity in relation to its powers under paragraph (2)(s). Power of Authority to enter into any arrangement for sharing of profits, etc. 5A. The Authority, with the approval of the Minister and the concurrence of the Minister of Finance, may— (a) enter into any arrangement for sharing profits, union of interests, cooperation or joint venture with any person or body of persons; or (b) establish or promote the establishment and expansion of companies under the Companies Act 1965 [Act 125]. Additional function of the Authority 5B. (1) In addition to the functions provided under this Act, the Authority may, with the approval of the Minister, operate any port-related activities. *NOTE—The Insurance Act 1963 [ Act 89 ] has since been repealed by the Insurance Act 1996 [Act 553]–see Part A of the Schedule. 

Bintulu Port Authority 17 (2) In the exercise of the function in subsection (1) the Autho rity may expend such moneys as are necessary. (3) For the purposes of this section, “port -related activities” means— (a) activities performed outside a port which relate to any function or duty of the Authority to operate or maintain a port or the transportation of goods through the port; or (b) the development, operation or maintenance outside the port of marinas and other properties necessary for the furtherance of any function or duty of the Authority. Duties of Authority 6. In the discharge of its functions, the Authority shall— (a) maintain, or provide for the maintenance of, adequate and efficient port services and facilities (including ferry services) at reasonable charges for all users of the Port, consistent with public interest; (b) provide pilotage services within the limits of the Port and the approaches to the Port; (c) provide such number of public landing-places as are in the opinion of the Authority sufficient; (d) co-ordinate the activities in, and promote the improvement and development of, the Port; and (e) do such acts and things as may be necessary towards the performance of the duties of the Authority mentioned in this section. Powers of Minister in relation to Authority 7. (1) The Minister may, after consultation with the Authority, give to the Authority directions of a general character and not 

18 Laws of Malaysia ACT 243 inconsistent with this Act as to the exercise and performance of its functions and duties in relation to matters which appear to him to affect the interests of Malaysia and the Authority shall give ef fect to all such directions. (2) In framing programmes of re -organization or development involving substantial capital outlay, the Authority shall act on guidelines laid down from time to time with the approval of the Minister. Power of Authority as to property 8. (1) No acquisition or disposal of immovable property by the Authority, including an interest in the form of a lease of such property for a term exceeding three years or a mortgage of such property, shall be valid unless such acquisition, dis posal, lease or mortgage has been made with the approval of the Minister in writing. (2) The Authority shall cause any property purchased or otherwise acquired, vested by way of gift or otherwise, or disposed of to be valued at the date of its purchase or acquisition, vesting or disposal, and shall forthwith cause details of such valuation to be shown on its accounts. (3) For the purposes of this Act, the Minister may, with the concurrence of the Minister of Finance, by order in the Gazette transfer to the Authority such movable and immovable property vested in or belonging to the Government as may be specified in the order, and any such property so transferred shall vest in the Authority without further assurance. (4) Any transfer under subsection (3 ) shall be subject to such terms and conditions as the Minister may, with the concurrence of the Minister of Finance, specify and the order may include provision in respect of the rights, interests, debts, liabilities and obligations appertaining to such p roperty which is to be transferred to and deemed to have been acquired or incurred by the Authority, as the case may be. 

Bintulu Port Authority 19 Acquisition of immovable property by Authority 9. When the Authority is unable to acquire by agreement any immovable property requir ed for the purposes of this Act, proceedings may be taken by the Government for acquiring the same on behalf of the Authority in accordance with the provisions of the Federal Constitution relating to the acquisition of land for federal purposes. Disposal of land 9A. For the avoidance of doubt, where any interest in land is vested in the Federation for purposes of the Port, it shall be lawful for the Federation pursuant to Article 86 of the Constitution, to dispose of such interest in land to any person o r body of persons for use by such person or body of persons for any federal purposes. Power of Authority to lease or grant licences in respect of foreshore 10. (1) The Authority may, for such rents or other payments, and periods, and subject to such convenants, conditions and restrictions as it thinks proper, lease or grant licences, under the hand of the Chairman, to any person to occupy or use any part of the foreshore which is vested in the Authority. (2) Notwithstanding subsection 8(1), no lease or licence granted under subsection (1) for a period exceeding twelve months shall be valid unless the same has been made with the approval of the Minister in writing. (3) The powers under subsections (1) and (2) shall not be exercised so as to cause any obstruction to navigation without first obtaining the approval of the Minister in writing. 

20 Laws of Malaysia ACT 243 Port Consultative Committee 11. (1) For the purpose of advising the Authority, the Minister may appoint a Port Consultative Committee (referred to in this section as “the Committee”) which shall consist of— (a) the Chairman of the Authority as chairman of the Committee; (b) the General Manager, where he has not been appointed to be the Chairman of the Authority; and (c) such other persons as the Minister may determine. (2) In appointing members under paragraph (1) (c), the Minister shall have regard to any representations relating thereto made by users of the Port and by persons providing port services. (3) The Authority may consult the Committee on any matter concerning the Port and shall, if the Committee has been appointed, consult it upon the following matters: (a) any substantial alteration in the charges or scales of charges levied by the Authority; (b) any major sche me relating to the expansion or development of the Port; and (c) any other matter upon which the Authority is required by the Minister to consult the Committee. (4) The chairman of the Committee shall cause a copy of the minutes of its meetings to be transmitted to the Minister. (5) Subsections 4(3), (4) and (5) and the Schedule (except paragraphs 6, 7 and 9 thereof) shall mutatis mutandis apply to the Committee and its members as they apply to the Authority and its members. 

Bintulu Port Authority 21 Working capital of Authority 12. The Authority may be provided with such sums of money for its working capital as the Dewan Rakyat may determine; and any sums so provided shall be subject to such terms and conditions as the Minister of Finance may specify. Finances and accounts of Authority 13. (1) The Authority shall keep proper and regular accounts and other records of moneys received and paid by the Authority and the several purposes for which such moneys have been received or paid, and of its assets, credits and liabilities. (2) The revenues of the Author ity for any financial year shall be applied in defraying the following charges for that year: (a) working and establishment expenses; (b) the maintenance, depreciation and renewal of the property, and the discharge of the functions, of the Authority properly chargeable to revenue; (c) interests on loans and repayments of moneys borrowed; and (d) such capital expenditure as the Authority may determine to charge to the revenues. (3) The amount remaining of the revenues of the Authority for any financial yea r, after defraying the charges referred to in subsection (2), shall be applied in making good any deficiencies in the revenue carried forward from previous years, and the whole or any part of the balance, if any, may as soon as may be after the end of that year be carried to such reserves approved by the Authority as the Authority thinks fit. (4) Moneys standing to the credit of reserves may be employed in the undertakings of the Authority. 

22 Laws of Malaysia ACT 243 (5) The Authority may open and maintain a current account with a bank approved by the Minister of Finance. Power to borrow money 13A. The Authority may, from time to time with the approval of the Minister of Finance, borrow, by way of overdraft or otherwise, such sums as it may require for meeting its obligations and discharging its functions under this Act and may secure the repayment of any sum borrowed by way of a mortgage or charge, legal or equitable, of any property vested in the Authority, or of any revenue received by the Authority under this Act. Investment of moneys not immediately required to be expended, and contributions to charity 14. (1) Moneys which are not immediately required to be expended in the discharge of any of the functions of the Authority shall, if invested, be invested by the Authority in investments authorized by any written law for the investment of trust funds, or in such other investments or securities as may be approved by the Minister of Finance, or may be deposited in a bank or financial institution approved by him: Provided that the Authority shall not invest moneys in securities issued or registered, or other property situated, outside Malaysia except with the approval in writing of the Minister of Finance to the making of that investment. (2) The Authority may, with the app roval of the Minister, make financial contributions to its staff or to public or charitable objects. Inspection and audit of accounts 15. The accounts and records of the Authority shall at all times be open to the inspection of— 

Bintulu Port Authority 23 (a) any member of the Authority; (b) the Auditor General or an auditor specially authorized by the Auditor General to inspect the accounts and records; (c) any other person specially authorized by the Minister to inspect the accounts and records. Books of accounts and records to be kept at head office 16. The books of accounts and records of the Authority shall be kept at its head office but may be removed therefrom where authorized by any written law. Statutory Bodies (Accounts and Annual Reports) Act 1980 to apply 17. The provisions of the Statutory Bodies (Accounts and Annual Reports) Act 1980 [Act 240] shall apply in respect of the Authority. Authority to furnish Minister with certain returns and other reports and information 18. The Authority shall furnish to the Minister such financial and statistical returns and such other reports and information of its financial position, property, activities, proceedings, policy and proposed undertakings as the Minister may from time to time require. Estimates of revenue and expenditure 19. (1) Not later than three months before the commencement of the financial year to which they relate, the annual estimates of revenue and expenditure (including capital expenditure) shall be submitted by the Authority to the Minister for his appro val and the Minister may at any time within one month of receipt of the same, disallow or amend any item of capital expenditure appearing in such 

24 Laws of Malaysia ACT 243 estimates, or any portion thereof, and return the same to the Authority for amendment. (2) The Authority shall forthwith amend any estimates returned to it under subsection (3) and sh all resubmit such estimates as a mended to the Minister. Supplementary estimates 20. (1) The Authority may at any time during the year for which estimates have been approved under section 19 cause supplementary estimates to be prepared and submitted to the Minister. (2) The provisions of section 19 shall mutatis mutandis apply to supplementary estimates as they apply to annual estimates of revenue and expenditure. PART III OFFICERS AND SERVANTS Appointment of officers and servants 21. (1) The Authority may from time to time appoint and employ, at such remuneration and on such terms and conditions as it may think fit, such officers and servants (including a General Manager Deputy General Manager) as may be necessary for the purposes of this Act: Provided that the Authority shall not appoint any person to be the General Manager or Deputy General Manager unless and until the approval of the Minister has been obtained. (2) The expression “Authority” in this section, in relation to the appointment of the General Manager, means the Authority consisting of the Chairman and the members appointed under paragraph 4(1)(c). 

Bintulu Port Authority 25 Establishment of Port security force 22. (1) The Authorit y may, with the approval of the Minister, establish a security force for keeping order and security within the area vested or deemed to be vested in, or in the possession or under the control of, the Authority. (2) The security force shall consist of suc h persons as may be appointed under subsection 21(1). (3) Notwithstanding any written law to the contrary, a member of the security force shall have the power to arrest without warrant any person found without lawful excuse within the area vested in, or in the possession or under the control of, the Authority. (4) Every person arrested pursuant to subsection (3) shall be taken to the nearest police station as soon as possible. (5) Any rules made under section 24 shall unless expressly excluded therein apply to members of the security force established under this section. Duties of General Manager 23. The General Manager shall, subject to the directions of the Authority on matters of policy, exercise supervision and control over the acts and proceedi ngs of all officers and servants of the Authority in matters of executive administration and in matters concerning the accounts and records of the Authority, and, subject to any rules made under this Act, deal with matters relating to the service of such officers and servants and their pay, privileges and allowances. Power to make rules 24. (1) The Authority may with the approval of the Minister make rules for or in respect of the salaries, allowances and conditions of service of its officers and servants generally. 

26 Laws of Malaysia ACT 243 (2) Without prejudice to the generality of subsection (1), the rules may provide— (a) for retirement benefits to officers and servants of the Authority who retire or otherwise cease to hold office as such officers and servants; and (b) for the ma king of loans to officers and servants of the Authority for such purposes as may be approved by the Minister, having regard to the purposes for which persons in the employment of the Government are granted loans. (3) The following provisions shall app ly to any rules made by virtue of paragraphs (2)(a) and (2)(b): (a) no donation, contribution, gratuity, allowance or other payment payable under such rules, nor any right or interest acquired by any person to any gratuity, allowance or other payment thereund er, shall be assignable, transferable or liable to be attached, sequestrated or levied upon for or in respect of a debt or claim whatsoever, other than a debt due to the Government of Malaysia or of a State or to the Authority; (b) any moneys paid under such rules on the death of any person shall be deemed to be impressed with a trust in favour of the persons entitled thereto under the will or intestacy of such deceased person, but shall not be deemed to form part of his estate or be subject to his debts; (c) any person may by his will or by a memorandum under his hand appoint a trustee of the moneys payable on his death under such rules, and may provide for the appointment of a new trustee or trustees of such moneys and for the investment thereof; (d) if at the time of the death of a person or at any time afterwards there is no trustee of such moneys or it is expedient to appoint a new trustee or trustees, then and in any such case a trustee or trustees or a new trustee or 

Bintulu Port Authority 27 trustees may be appointed by t he High Court or a Judge thereof; (e) the receipt of a trustee or trustees duly appointed, or in default of any such appointment the receipt of the legal personal representative of the deceased person, shall be a discharge for any moneys payable on his d eath under such rules; (f) no donation, contribution or interest paid under such rules shall be subject to the debts of the contributor, nor shall such donation, contribution or interest be paid to the Director General of Insolvency on the bankruptcy of a contributor, but if such contributor is adjudicated a bankrupt or is declared insolvent by judgment of the court, such donation or contribution or interest shall, subject to the provisions of such rules, be deemed to be impressed with a trust in favour of the person entitled thereto on the death of the contributor; (g) the bankruptcy of a contributor shall not affect the making of deductions from the salary of the contributor in accordance with such rules and such deduction shall continue to be made notwithstanding the provisions of any written law to the contrary, and the portion of salary so deducted shall be deemed not to form part of his after acquired property; (h) any officer or servant of the Authority who is a contributor under such rules shall, if he is dism issed from service as such officer or servant for fraud, dishonesty or misconduct which involves pecuniary loss to the Authority, or retires or resigns from his office with intent to escape discharge or dismissal in consequence of such fraud, d ishonesty or misconduct, forfeit, subje ct to such conditions as may be provided by the rules, all o r any part of the contributions made by the Authority as it thinks fit; an appeal shall lie to the Minister against any such forfeiture. 

28 Laws of Malaysia ACT 243 (4) Rules made under this sect ion, other than rules relating to pensions and other retiring benefits of officers and servants, shall not be required to be published in the Gazette. Public servants for purposes of Penal Code 25. All members, officers and servants of the Authority an d all members of the Port Consultative Committee, the Pilotage Committee and a committee of the Authority shall be deemed to be public servants within the meaning of the Penal Code [Act 574]. Application of Public Authorities Protection Act 1948 and protection from personal liability 26. (1) The Public Authorities Protection Act 1948 [ Act 198 ] shall apply to any action, suit, prosecution or proceeding against the Authority, or against any member, officer, servant or agent thereof in respect of any act, neglect or default done or committed by him in that capacity. (2) No matter or thing done and no contract entered into by the Authority and no matter or thing done by a member, an officer, a servant or an agent of the Authority acting under the direct ion of the Authority shall, if the matter or thing was done or the contract entered into bona fide for the purposes of this Act, subject such member, officer, servant or agent personally to any action, liability, claim or demand in respect thereof, and exp enses incurred by the Authority or such member, officer, servant or agent in connection therewith shall be paid out of the funds of the Authority. PART IV CHARGES AND RECOVERY OF CHARGES Authority may levy charges 27. (1) The Authority may levy charges in respect of services, works or facilities rendered, performed or provided in the exercise of 

Bintulu Port Authority 29 its functions under this Act and for that purpose it shall with the approval of the Minister from time to time prescribe charges or scales of charges and impose penalties or interests for late payment of any dues in respect of all or any of the following matters: (a) the landing, shipping, wharfage, lighterage, cranage and storage of goods, and the use of the Authority’s vessels and vehicles and demurrage thereon; (b) the mooring of vessels and boats; (c) the carriage of goods by vehicles (whether plying for hire or otherwise); (d) the embarkation and landing of persons; (e) the carriage of passengers, vehicles, animals and goods by a ferry service maintained by the Authority; (f) the use of a quay, wharf, dock, jetty, pier, landing -place, foreshore or other property vested in or under the control of the Authority; (g) services rendered or material supplied to, or made use of by, a vessel, body corporate or an individual; (h) the use of t ugs, firefloats and launches belonging to or maintained by the Authority; (i) water supplied by the Authority; (j) the towing of, and rendering of assistance to, a vessel (whether entering or leaving the wharves, docks or piers in the possession of the Authorit y, or whether within or without the Port); (k) the shipping and transhipping of goods or persons; and (l) any other matter in respect of which the Authority is empowered to levy charges. 

30 Laws of Malaysia ACT 243 (2) The Authority may with the approval of the Minister from time to time alter or vary the charges or scales of charges referred to in subsection (1). (3) The Authority may, instead of levying the charges in accordance with the charges or scales of charges prescribed, enter into an agreement on any of the matters specified in subsection (1). (4) In relation to any matter in respect of which no charges or scales of charges have been prescribed pursuant to subsection (1), the Authority may levy any charges it thinks fit. (5) The Authority may with the approval of the Minister remit the whole or any portion of the charges leviable under this section: Provided that the Authority may in its discretion remit the whole or any part of the rates for storage or demurrage. (6) The Minister may , in any case where it appears to h im expedient, having regard to the liabilities which the Authority has to meet, require the Authority to increase any charges prescribed under subsection (1), and the Authority shall accordingly carry out that requirement. (7) The Authority may cause the scale of charges to be printed and may, for the information of the public, exhibit such scales (either in whole or in part) at such places as the Authority deems fit. (8) Any charges or scales of charges prescribed shall be published in the Gazette. Submission of memorandum for any change in existing structure of charges 27A. (1) Any person or body of persons licensed under this Act or the Ports (Privatization) Act 1990 [ Act 422] shall prepare and submit to the Authority a memorandum for any change i n the existing structure of charges prescribed under any by-laws made under section 67 for the approval of the Minister. 

Bintulu Port Authority 31 (2) Where no reply is received from the Authority as regards the memorandum submitted under subsection (1) within six months of its submission, the change in the existing structure of charges as contained in the memorandum shall take effect on the expiration of such period. (2A) Where a reply is received from the Authority as regards the memorandum submitted under subsection (1) indica ting the decision of the Authority to disallow the change in the existing structure of charges as contained in the memorandum, any person or body of persons who is aggrieved by the decision of the Authority may, within fourteen days from the date of such d ecision, appeal to the Minister whose decision shall be final. (3) The person or body of persons licensed under this Act or the Ports (Privatization) Act 1990 shall as soon as practicable publish the change in the existing structure of charges in the loc al newspapers, at least one in the Malay language and one in the English or Chinese language. (4) The Authority shall as soon as practicable make by -laws in respect of the change in the existing structure of charges. Charges to become payable where req uest withdrawn without reasonable notice 28. Any charges prescribed under this Act for any services, works or facilities shall become due and payable as if such services, works or facilities had been rendered, performed or provided, if the request for the services, works or facilities was withdrawn or cancelled without reasonable notice thereof being given to the Authority. Recovery of charges in arrears 29. (1) The Authority shall in the case of charges which have not been paid in respect of any goods have a lien on such goods and shall be entitled to seize and detain such goods until the charges are fully paid. 

32 Laws of Malaysia ACT 243 (2) Such lien shall have priority over all other liens and claims, except claims for moneys payable to the Government. (3) Charges in respect of goods to be— (a) landed; (b) shipped; or (c) removed from the premises of the Authority, shall be payable respectively— (i) on the landing of the goods; (ii) before the goods are shipped; or (iii) on demand. Recovery of pilotage dues 30. (1) The Authority may with the approval of the Minister from time to time by notification in the Gazette— (a) prescribe the pilotage dues which shall be paid to the Authority by the master or owner of every vessel; and (b) define the circumstances and condition s under which pilotage dues are to be recoverable in respect of the services of an Authority pilot. (2) If a vessel having on board an Authority pilot leads another vessel having no Authority pilot on board, the Authority shall be entitled to the full pi lotage dues as if the Authority pilot had actually been on board and had piloted that other vessel. (3) The Authority may, if it thinks fit, remit the whole or any part of pilotage dues paid. (4) The Authority may with the approval of the Minister exe mpt, upon such conditions as it may impose, any vessel or classes of vessels from any pilotage dues payable under this Act. 

Bintulu Port Authority 33 Power to sell goods remaining in custody 31. (1) Subject to this section and without prejudice to section 33, the Authority may, wh ere any goods which have been placed in its custody are not removed therefrom within a period of twenty -one days from the time when such goods are so placed in custody, at the expiration of such period sell by public auction any or all of such goods as are still in its custody: Provided that— (a) in the case of goods for which a through bill of lading has been issued there shall be substituted a period of forty-two days for the period of twenty -one days referred to in this subsection; and (b) if the goods are o f a perishable nature the Authority may direct their removal within such shorter period (not being less than twenty -four hours after the landing) as the Authority may think fit, and the power of sale of the goods may be exercised at the expiration of such period. (2) For the purposes of subsection (1), a sale shall not be rendered invalid by reason only that it takes place on premises or in an area to which the public is not admitted except on presentation of a pass. (3) Before making such sale the Aut hority shall give three days’ notice thereof by advertisement in two local newspapers circulating in the State of Sarawak, unless the goods are of so perishable a nature as, in the opinion of the Authority, to render their immediate sale necessary or advis able, in which event such notice shall be given as the urgency of the case permits. (4) If their addresses are ascertainable from the manifest of the cargo or from any of the documents which have come into the hands of the Authority or are otherwise know n, notice shall also be given to the owners of the goods and to the agent of the discharging vessel. 

34 Laws of Malaysia ACT 243 (5) Notwithstanding subsection (4), the title of a bona fide purchaser shall not be invalidated by reason of the omission to give such notice, and the pu rchaser shall not be required to inquire whether notice has been given. (6) The proceeds of sale shall be applied by the Authority for, and in accordance with the order of, the following payments: (a) duty payable to the Government; (b) expenses of the sale; (c) payment of the rates, charges and expenses due to the Authority in respect of the goods; and (d) freight and other claims or lien of which notice has been given to the Authority before the day of the sale. (7) The balance of the proceeds of sale, if any, after making the payments under subsection (6) shall be paid to the person entitled thereto on demand or, where no such demand is made within one year from the sale of the goods, into the general account of the Authority, and thereupon all r ights to the same by that person shall be extinguished. Power to compound or compromise claim or demand 32. The Authority may compound, or compromise for or in respect of, any claim or demand made against it, for such sum of money or other compensation as it deems sufficient. Power to distrain for non-payment of charges 33. (1) Where the master of a vessel fails to pay any charges or part thereof payable on demand under this Act or any rules or by laws made thereunder, the Authority may distrain or ar rest the vessel and the tackle, apparel, furniture or other article belonging to the vessel and detain the same until the charges are paid. 

Bintulu Port Authority 35 (2) Where any part of the charges or the costs of the distress, arrest or detention of the vessel, tackle, apparel , furniture or other article remain unpaid for the space of fourteen days next after any such distress, arrest or detention, the Authority may cause the vessel or the other articles so distrained, arrested or detained, to be sold, and may apply the proceed s thereof to satisfy such charges and costs (including the costs of the sale) and the Authority shall pay the balance thereof, if any, to the master of the vessel on demand. (3) Where the Authority has given to the officer of the Government whose duty it is to grant the port clearance of a vessel, a notice stating that an amount specified therein is due in respect of charges (leviable under this Act or any rules or by -laws made thereunder) against a vessel, the officer shall not grant any port clearance i n respect of that vessel until the amount so leviable has been paid. (4) The provisions of this section (relating to the recovery of charges in arrears by the Authority) shall be in addition to and not in derogation of the rights of the Authority under any other law. PART V LIABILITY OF THE AUTHORITY Limitation of Authority’s liability in other matters 34. (1) The Authority shall not where, without its actual fault or privity, any loss or damage, not being loss or damage provided for by this Part, is caused to a vessel, or to a train, vehicle, animals, goods or other things whatsoever on board a vessel, be liable to damages beyond an aggregate amount not exceeding in the currency of Malaysia the equivalent of eight pounds sterling for each ton of the tonnage of the vessel. (2) For the purposes of this Part, the tonnage of vessels shall be ascertained from the register of such vessels which shall be sufficient evidence that the gross tonnage and the deduction therefrom and the registered tonnage are as therein stated. 

36 Laws of Malaysia ACT 243 Liability in respect of loading or discharging operations 35. The Authority shall not, without its actual fault or privity, be liable to damages— (a) in respect of personal injury or death caused to any person; (b) for loss or damage t o any goods, merchandise or other things whatsoever, where such injury, death, loss or damage is caused by or arises out of the operation of loading onto or discharging from a vessel of goods or any work incidental thereto. Goods deposited for lighterage or shipment 36. Any goods, merchandise or other things deposited with or placed in the custody of the Authority for the purpose of lighterage or shipment shall remain in the custody or control of the Authority at the sole risk and expense of the owner thereof. Loss, destruction of or damage to goods other than tran shipment goods deposited with Authority 37. (1) The Authority and any person authorized by it shall, in respect of any other than transhipment goods deposited with or placed in the custod y or control of the Authority for the purpose of delivery, be deemed to be the agent of the owner of the vessel discharging goods irrespective of whosoever pays or is to pay any charges or duties in respect of the goods. (2) Neither the Authority nor any person authorized by it shall, in acting as an agent under subsection (1), be liable— (a) either in damages or in any other respect for loss caused to a person by reason of short delivery of any goods deposited or placed in the custody or control of the 

Bintulu Port Authority 37 Authority or any failure by the Authority to deliver or account for the same; or (b) for damage to, or destruction of, such goods in a sum of more than one thousand ringgit per package or unit unless the nature and value of the goods contained therein have prior to delivery to the Authority been declared in writing to the Authority by the person delivering or causing the same to be delivered, and the Authority shall not in any event be liable therefor where the value of any such goods has been misstated or where there prevails any of the circumstances set out in section 39. (3) For the purposes of this section and of section 38, the expression “transhipment goods” means goods landed from a vessel and placed in the custody of the Authority for the purposes of shipment on another vessel on a through bill of lading dated at the port of loading of such goods and showing that the destination is via the Port, with the ultimate port of destination marked on each package or unit containing such goods and declared on a transshipment manifest lodged with the Authority prior to or at the time such goods are placed in its custody. Loss or destruction of or damage to transhipment goods deposited with Authority 38. In respect of any transhipment goods delivered by a person to, or placed by a person in the custody of, the Authority, the Authority shall, from time of acknowledgement of the receipt of such goods and until delivery of such goods alongside the on -carrying vessel for loading, be liable, subject to section 39, for the loss or destruction of, or damage to, such goods: Provided that the Authority shall not be liable for any such loss, destruction or damage in a sum of more than one thousand ringgit per package or unit unless the nature and value of the goods contai ned therein have, prior to delivery to the Authority, been declared in writing to the Authority by the person delivering or causing the same 

38 Laws of Malaysia ACT 243 to be delivered, and the Authority shall not in any event be liable therefor where the value of any such goods has been misstated. Force majeure, etc. 39. Paragraph 37(2) (b) and section 38 shall not impose on the Authority or any person duly authorized by it any liability for the loss or destruction of, or damage to, any goods arising from— (a) fire or flood, unless caused by the actual fault or privity of the Authority; (b) an act of God; (c) an act of war or of public enemies; (d) seizure under any legal process; (e) quarantine restrictions; (f) any act, omission or default of the owner or carrier of the goods; (g) strikes, lockouts or stoppages or restraints of labour from whatever cause, whether partial or general; (h) riots and civil commotion; (i) saving or attempting to save life or property; (j) insufficient or improper packing, defective o r insufficient marks or leakage from defective drums, containers or packages; (k) any inherent liability to wastage in bulk or weight, latent or inherent defect or natural deterioration; (l) any deficiency in the contents of unbroken packages; or (m) the dangerous nature of such goods. 

Bintulu Port Authority 39 Limitation of liability in respect of one occasion 40. The limitation o f liability under this Part shall relate to the whole of any losses and damages which may arise upon any one distinct occasion, althoug h such losses or damages may be sustained by more than one person, and shall apply whether the liability arises at common law or under any written law and notwithstanding anything contained in such written law. Exemption from liability for failure to run ferry boat as advertised 41. The Authority shall be exempt from all liability in respect of any loss or damage whether arising from the variation in the time of departure or arrival of any of its ferry boats or by reason of its failure to run any ferry boat as advertised or at all. Power of High Court to consolidate claims 42. Where any liability is alleged to have been incurred by the Authority in respect of loss of life, personal injury or loss of or damage to vessels, trains, vehicles, animals, good s or other things whatsoever, and several claims are made or apprehended in respect of that liability, then the Authority may apply to the High Court, and that Court may determine the amount of the Authority’s liability and may distribute that amount rateably among the several claimants, and may stay any proceedings pending in any other court in relation to the same matter, and may proceed in such manner and subject to such rules as to making persons interested parties to the proceedings, and as to the excl usion of any claimants who do not come in within a certain time, and as to requiring security from the Authority, and as to payment of any costs as the Court thinks just. Liability for loss under contract 43. (1) Notwithstanding this Part, the Authority shall, on application made to it by the owner of a vessel, enter into a contract 

40 Laws of Malaysia ACT 243 with that owner whereby the Authority shall accept liability for any loss caused by reason of short delivery by the Authority of any goods deposited with or placed in the cus tody or control of the Authority or any failure by the Authority to deliver or account for the same; and for the purposes of this section, the Authority may prescribe the terms and conditions of the contract and may, with the approval of the Minister, from time to time prescribe the rates to be levied: Provided that the Authority may in its discretion refuse to enter into such contract unless the contract is in respect of all of the goods to be loaded into or discharged from a vessel, as the case may be. (2) Nothing in this Part shall affect the liability of the Authority under any written law relating to compensation to workmen. PART VI PORT, WHARVES AND PREMISES Control of foreshores 44. The Authority shall have control of the use of foreshores w ithin the Port and no goods or cargo shall be handled across, over or under such foreshores without the written permission of the Authority or otherwise than in accordance with such conditions as the Authority may prescribe. Landing or shipping of cargo over quays, wharves, etc. 45. No goods or cargo shall be handled across or over any quay, wharf, dock, pier or other place without the written permission of the Authority or otherwise than in accordance with such conditions as the Authority may prescribe. 

Bintulu Port Authority 41 Construction of quays, wharves, etc. 46. (1) The Authority shall have jurisdiction over the construction or alteration of any quay, wharf, dock, pier or similar work and no such construction or alteration shall take place within the Port without t he written permission of the Authority which, before granting such permission, may require the submission of plans of the proposed construction or alteration. (2) Any person who acts in contravention of subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding two thousand ringgit and if ordered so to do shall remove the construction or alteration at his own expense. Permit for conveyance of goods 47. (1) No vessel shall be used for the conveyance of goo ds or cargo from one place to another within the Port except under and in accordance with a permit granted by the Authority. (2) A permit may be granted in respect of one vessel or more or to one person or more. (3) Any person to whom a permit is grant ed under this section shall from time to time supply to the Authority such information as the Authority may reasonably require relating to the nature and amount of the goods and cargo conveyed in accordance with the permit in any specified period, and for this purpose the person shall keep records thereof. (4) Any failure to supply the information or to keep the records required under subsection (3) shall be deemed to be a breach of the conditions of the permit. (5) The Authority may exempt from the req uirements of this section any vessel or class of vessels of less than ten tons gross tonnage and it may also, without assigning any reason therefor, terminate the exemption. 

42 Laws of Malaysia ACT 243 (6) Nothing in this section shall be deemed to affect or modify the provisions of any written law relating to the licensing of boats for the conveyance of cargo, and no permit shall be granted under this section in respect of a vessel required to be licensed under those provisions unless that vessel has been duly licensed thereunder. Appeal 48. Any person aggrieved by the refusal of the Authority to grant a permit under this Part, or by the cancellation or suspension of a permit already granted, may, not later than one month from the date of such refusal, cancellation or suspension appeal to the Minister whose decision thereon shall be final. Minister may appoint any place for use as customs collecting Centre 49. (1) The Minister may, notwithstanding anything in this Act, appoint any part of the wharves or premises vested in the Authority to be a place for the collection of import duty or other revenues payable to the Government. (2) Whenever any wharf or part of the premises of the Authority has been so appointed as a place for the collection of import duty or other revenues, the Authority shall set apart and maintain the place in such manner as the Minister may require for the use of the persons entitled to collect such duties or revenues. (3) All charges payable in respect of any such wharf or part of the premises so set a part, or for the landing, shipping or storage of goods thereon, therefrom or therein, shall be paid to the Authority. Licensed warehouse 50. (1) In respect of any of its licensed warehouses the Authority may give general security by bond or otherwise for— 

Bintulu Port Authority 43 (a) the payment of the import duty payable in respect of goods stored in such licensed warehouse; or (b) the due exportation of such goods. (2) When such security has been given by the Authority no further security shall be required by the Government from any other person to the same effect. (3) Any person who is, or has the powers of, a revenue officer under any written law shall at all times— (a) be admitted to any part of a licensed warehouse; and (b) be permitted to inspect the books kept in connection therewith and the stock contained therein. Power of Authority to order vessels to come alongside 51. The Authority may order any sea -going vessel within the Port to come alongside a suitable quay, wharf, jetty, pier or landing stage which is vested in o r under the control of the Authority, for the purpose of landing or shipping goods, cargo or passengers: Provided that such order may be made only where— (a) the vessel has not commenced landing goods, cargo or passengers; or (b) the vessel is about to ship go ods, cargo or passengers but has not commenced to do so, and in making such order the Authority shall have regard, as far as possible, to the convenience of the vessel and of the shippers in respect of a particular quay, wharf, jetty, pier or landing-stage. 

44 Laws of Malaysia ACT 243 Government vessels 52. The Minister may at any time require that a vessel belonging to or in the service of the Government of Malaysia or of a State be permitted to come alongside a quay, wharf, jetty, pier or landing stage which is vested in or is under the control of the Authority in preference to all other vessels at the time in port, and the Authority shall give effect to such requirement. PART VII PILOTAGE Declaration of pilotage district 53. (1) The Authority may from time to time by not ification in the Gazette declare an area in the Port or the approaches to the Port to be a pilotage district and shall define therein the limits of the pilotage district. (2) This Part shall apply to a pilotage district declared under this section. Vessels of certain tonnage to be under pilotage 54. (1) The Authority may require such vessel or class of vessels as it may from time to time specify to be under pilotage while navigating in a pilotage district and the master or owner of every such vessel or every vessel of that class shall comply with such requirement. (2) A vessel while being moved within any area of the Port which is or forms part of a pilotage district shall be deem ed to be a vessel navigating in a pilotage district. 

Bintulu Port Authority 45 Authority to employ pilots 55. (1) Subject to this Act, the Authority may employ such number of pilots as it deems necessary or expedient for the purpose of providing an adequate and efficient pilotage service. (2) No person shall be employed as an Authority pil ot in a pilotage district unless he is in possession of a valid licence to act as a pilot in that district issued under section 59. Power of Pilotage Committee to license employees of a licensed operator 55A. (1) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Act the Authority may, if it considers expedient, authorize the Pilotage Committee to issue a licence to any employee of a licensed operator to pilot vessels in a pilotage district of such Authority subject to such terms and conditions as the Authority thinks fit: Provided that no such licence shall be issued to any such employee unless the Pilotage Committee has examined the employee and be satisfied as to the employee’s general fitness and competency, including his physical fitness, to act as a pilot for the licensed operator. (2) A licence issued under subsection (1) shall cease to be valid if the employee to whom it was issued ceases to be employed by the licensed operator. Vessel to be piloted by Authority pilot or a licensed person 55B. No vessel shall be piloted in a pilotage district by any person other than the Authority pilot or a person licensed under subsection 55A(1). 

46 Laws of Malaysia ACT 243 Appointment and functions of Pilotage Committee 56. The Authority shall with the approval of the Mini ster appoint a Pilotage Committee for the purpose of— (a) holding examinations and issuing, on behalf of the Authority, licences to act as Authority pilots or as pilots employed by a licensed operator; (b) holding inquiries concerning the conduct of Authority pilots or persons licensed under subsection 55 A(1) in the discharge of their duties as directed by the Authority, and making recommendations to the Authority; (c) investigating and advising on such matters as may be referred to the Pilotage Committee by the Authority; and (d) carrying out such other functions as are conferred on the Pilotage Committee by this Act. Constitution of Pilotage Committee 57. (1) The Pilotage Committee shall consist of a chairman and four other persons who, by reason of their knowledge of or experience in shipping, nautical or port matters are, in the opinion of the Authority, fit and proper persons to be members of the Pilotage Committee. (2) The appointment of a member of the Pilotage Committee may be for any period not exceeding th ree years but the member shall be eligible for reappointment on completion of every such period. (3) Three members of the Pilotage Committee shall form a quorum at a meeting of that Committee. (4) The chairman of the Pilotage Committee shall preside at all its meetings: Provided that in the absence of the chairman the members present shall choose one of their number to preside in his place. 

Bintulu Port Authority 47 (5) If on any question to be det ermined there is an equality of votes, the chairman or member presiding shall h ave the casting vote in addition to his original vote. (6) Members of the Pilotage Committee who are not officers or servants of the Authority may be paid out of the funds of the Authority such fees and allowances as the Authority may determine. (7) Paragraphs 1 and 10 of the Schedule shall mutatis mutandis apply to the Pilotage Committee and its members as they apply to the Authority and its members. Rules in relation to Pilotage Committee 58. Subject to this Act, the Authority may make rules for the purpose of regulating the meetings and proceedings of the Pilotage Committee. Examination for and issue of licence to act as pilot 59. (1) The Pilotage Committee shall examine candidates for employment by the Authority as pilots and on being satis fied as to a candidate’s general fitness including physical fitness and competency to act as an Authority pilot may, on behalf of the Authority, issue to him a licence to act as such and the licence may contain such conditions as the Pilotage Committee may impose. (2) Subject to this Part, every pilot holding immediately prior to the coming into force of this Part a licence to act as a pilot issued under any written law shall be deemed to be qualified for employment by the Authority as a pilot, and the Pi lotage Committee may, on behalf of the Authority, issue to such pilot when employed by the Authority a licence to act as an Authority pilot in a pilotage district, subject to such conditions as the Pilotage Committee may impose. (3) Every Authority pilot shall whenever the Pilotage Committee considers that, owing to chan ged conditions or for any other 

48 Laws of Malaysia ACT 243 sufficient reason, the further testing of the general fitness including physical fitness and competency of any s uch pilot is necessary, present himself for further examination, and shall in every such case first deposit with the Pilotage Commi ttee the licence issued by that Committee on behalf of the Authority to be returned or cancelled by the Committee on behalf of the Authorit y as the result of such test or examination. (4) The Authority shall not continue to employ as a pilot any person whose licence to act as a pilot is cancelled pursuant to subsection (3). (5) A licence issued under this section shall cease to be valid upon the termination of the pilot’s employment with the Authority. Inquiries by Pilotage Committee 60. (1) The Pilotage Committee may, and when directed by the Authority shall, hold an inquiry into the conduct of an Authority pilot or a person licensed under subsection 55 A (1) where it appears that he has been guilty of misconduct affecting his capability, or has failed in or neglected his duty, or has become incompetent to act, as such pilot. (2) For the purposes of the inquiry, the Pilotage Committee may summon any person to att end any of its meeting to give evidence on oath or produce any document or other thing in his possession and to examine him as a witness or require him to produce any document or other thing in his possession relative to the matters which are the subject-matter of such inquiry. (3) Any person who— (a) being summoned to attend any such inquiry, fails so to do; (b) offers an act of disrespect or any insult or threat to the Pilotage Committee or any member thereof during an inquiry; or 

Bintulu Port Authority 49 (c) being required by the Pilota ge Committee to give evidence on oath or affirmation or to produce a document or other thing, refuses so to do, shall be guilty of an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding *two thousand ringgit. Submission of Pilotage Comm ittee’s findings and recommendations to Authority 61. (1) Where the Pilotage Committee, after due inquiry in accordance with this Part and after hearing any statement that may be offered in defence, finds that an Authority pilot or a person licensed under subsection 55 A(1) has been guilty of misconduct affecting his capability, or has failed in or neglected his duty, or has become incompetent to act, as a pilot, it shall submit to the Authority a copy of the record of the inquiry and its findings and recom mendations in respect of the inquiry. (2) The Authority may, after considering the findings and recommendations of the Pilotage Committee, suspend or cancel the licence of the Authority pilot or person licensed under subsection 55A(1) or impose such othe r punishment as the Authority may think fit. (3) Any Authority pilot or any person licensed under subsection 55A(1) who is aggrieved by a decision of the Authority made under subsection (2) may, within fourteen days from the date of such decision, appeal to the Minister whose decision thereon shall be final. Liability of master or owner in case of vessel under pilotage 62. The master or owner of a vessel navigating in circumstances in which pilotage is compulsory shall be answerable for any loss or damage caused by the vessel or by any fault of the navigation of the *NOTE—Previously “five hundred ringgit” —see Bintulu Port Authority (Amendment) Act 1992 [Act A831]. 

50 Laws of Malaysia ACT 243 vessel in the same manner as he would be if pilotage were not compulsory. Limitation of Authority pilot’s liability when bond is given 63. (1) An Authority pilot who has given a bond in accordance with subsection (2) shall not be liable for neglect, want of skill or incapacity in office beyond the penalty of the bond and the amount payable to the Authority on account of pilotage in respect of the voyage in which he was engaged when he became so liable. (2) Every Authority pilot shall undertake to give a bond in favour of the Authority in such sum as the Authority considers reasonable for the proper performance of his duties under this Part and any rules or by-laws made under this Act. (3) Any bond given by an Authority pilot in accordance with this section shall not be liable to stamp duty. (4) Where any proceedings are taken against an Authority pilot for any neglect, want of skill or incapacity in office in respect of which his li ability is limited as provided by this section, and other claims are made in respect of the same neglect, want of skill or incapacity in office, the court in which such proceedings are taken may— (a) determine the amount of the pilot’s liability and, upon payment by him of the amount to court, distribute the amount rateably among the several claimants; (b) stay any proceedings pending in any other court in relation to the same matter; and (c) proceed in such manner and subject to such directions as to making persons interested parties to the proceedings, and as to the exclusion of any claimant who has not submitted his claim within a certain time, and as to requiring security from the pilot and as to payment of any costs as the court thinks fit. 

Bintulu Port Authority 51 Pilotage Committee a nd Authority not liable for loss or damage occasioned by pilot 64. (1) The issue of a licence to a pilot by the Pilotage Committee on behalf of the Authority under subsection 55 A(1) or 59(1) shall not impose liability on the Pilotage Committee for any lo ss or damage occasioned by an act, omission or default of such pilot. (2) An Authority pilot whilst engaged in an act of pilotage shall, notwithstanding that he may be employed at a salary by the Authority, be deemed to be the servant only of the master or owner of the vessel under pilotage and the Authority shall not be liable for any loss or damage occasioned by any act, omission or default of such pilot. Summary proceedings 65. A court may, if it thinks fit, call upon two members of the Pilotage Co mmittee to sit with it as assessors in any proceedings affecting Authority pilots under this Act or any rules or by-laws made thereunder. By-laws regulating pilotage and conduct of pilots 66. (1) The Authority may, with the approval of the Minister, make by-laws for regulating pilotage in any pilotage district and for the maintenance of good conduct and discipline of Authority pilots and for matters relating to their duties. (2) The Authority may, in making by -laws under this section, provide that the contravention of any by -law shall be an offence and may prescribe as a penalty in respect of any on e offence a fine not exceeding *five thousand ringgit. *NOTE—Previously “two thousand ringgit” —see Bintulu Port Authority (Amendment) Act 1992 [Act A831]. 

52 Laws of Malaysia ACT 243 PART VIIA EXTENSION OF THE FUNCTIONS, ETC., OF THE PORT AUTHORITY TO OTHER PORTS Power of Minister to extend Authority’s functions to other ports 66A. (1) The Minister may, by order published in the Gazette, extend the functions, powers, duties and jurisdiction of the Authority to other ports. (2) An order under subsection (1) may provide that the Authority shall, in carrying out the administration of the port to which its control is extended, include among its members such other person or persons as may be specified in the order either by name or by office. (3) Where an order is made under subsec tion (1), the Authority shall be deemed for all purposes to be the port authority in respect of the port specified in the order as if it were a port authority established in respect of that port under this Act and shall in carrying out its functions be styled by such name as may be provided in the order. The authority in carrying out its extended functions shall be deemed to be an independent port authority 66B. The Authority in carrying out its functions in respect of the port to which they are extended shall carry them out as if it were an independent port authority established in respect of such port. Power of Minister to make provisions for the Authority to carry out its functions 66C. An order of the Minister under section 66 A may contain all such provisions as the Minister may deem necessary to enable the Authority to carry out its functions in relation to the port to which they are extended. 

Bintulu Port Authority 53 Interpretation 66D. For the purposes of this Part, “port” means a Federal port or a place declared to be a Federal port by Federal law. PART VIII BY-LAWS By-laws 67. (1) The Authority may with the approval of the Minister make by-laws for— (a) regulating, declaring and defining the wharves, docks, piers and places which are vested in or are under the control of the Authority, on and from which goods may be landed or shipped in vessels; (b) regulating the manner in which and the conditions under which the loading and discharging of vessels shall be carried out, and for varying the positions of vessels loading and discharging; (c) regulating the safe and convenient use of the docks, wharves, piers, landing -places, warehouses, sheds and premises which are vested in or are under the control of the Authority, and of any ferry service maintained by the Authority; (d) regulating the reception, storage and removal of goods within and from the premises of the Authority, and declaring the procedure to be followed for taking charge of goods which have been damaged before landing or are alleged to have been so damaged; (e) settling the mode of payment of rates and charges leviable under this Act, facilitating their collection and preventing their evasion; 

54 Laws of Malaysia ACT 243 (f) keeping clean the basins, works and premises of the Authority and the waters adjacent thereto, and prev enting oil, filth and rubbish from being thrown or from entering therein or thereon; (g) limiting the liability of the Authority in respect of any loss, damage or injury to any person occurring without the actual fault or privity of the Authority (whether in a vessel operated or maintained by the Authority or on any wharf, quay or other part of the Port); (h) regulating the conveyance, loading and unloading of dangerous goods; (i) regulating the iss ue and transfer of licences and prescribing the fees payable in relation thereto; (ia) prescribing the procedure in respect of any tender or contract to be followed by the Authority or any person acting on behalf of the Authority; (ib) controlling the facilities for the laying up of vessels and prescribing the fees payable in respect thereof; (j) prescribing anything that may be prescribed under this Act; and (k) otherwise carrying out the provisions of this Act. (2) Any by-laws made under paragraph (1)(h) may— (a) prescribe the notice to be given by ships and bo ats conveying, loading or unloading dangerous goods; (b) regulate the navigation and place of berthing of ships and boats carrying dangerous goods; (c) prohibit or regulate the conveyance in passenger ships, boats, trains or vehicles of any kind of dangerous goo ds with any other kind of dangerous goods, articles or substances; 

Bintulu Port Authority 55 (d) regulate the conveyance, loading and unloading of dangerous goods and prescribe the mode of stowing and keeping such goods on board a ship or boat or on any premises; (e) prohibit, in cases whe re the loading or unloading of dangerous goods appears to be especially dangerous to the public, such loading or unloading, and fix the places and times at which any dangerous goods are to be loaded or unloaded and the quantity to be loaded or unloaded or conveyed at one time or in one ship, boat or vehicle; (f) prescribe the mode of and the precautions to be observed in conveying or keeping dangerous goods, and regulate the loading or unloading of a ship, boat or vehicle conveying such goods; (g) prescribe the t imes at which lights or fires are to be allowed or prohibited on board a ship or boat conveying or keeping dangerous goods; and (h) generally provide for the safety of persons and property from damage. (3) The Authority may in the by -laws made under this se ction provide that the contravention of any by -law shall be an offence and may prescribe as penalties— (a) a fine not exceeding one thousand ringgit; and (b) a further fine not exceeding two hundred and fifty ringgit for every day during which the offence is continued. (4) The Authority may cause any by -laws made under this section to be printed and may, for the information of the public, exhibit such by -laws (whether in whole or in part) at such places as the Authority deems fit. 

56 Laws of Malaysia ACT 243 PART IX OFFENCES, DAMAGES, PENALTIES AND PROCEDURES Refusal or neglect to appear before Auditor General or to produce books for inspection 68. (1) For the purposes of audit and examination of accounts under this Act, the Auditor General or an auditor authorized by the Auditor General may by notice in writing— (a) require the production before him of all books, deeds, contracts, vouchers and all other documents and papers which he deems necessary; (b) require any person holding or accountable for any such books, deeds, contracts, vou chers, documents or papers to appear before him at any such audit and examination or adjournment thereof, and to make and sign a declaration with respect to the same. (2) Any person who fails to comply with any requirement made under subsection (1) or fa ils to produce any book of account to any person entitled to inspect the same shall be guilty of an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding two hundred ringgit. Penalty for evading rates or charges 69. The master or owner of a vessel, or the owner, consignor or consignee of any goods imported into or exported out of the Port, who by any means whatsoever eludes or evades, or attempts to elude or evade, or neglects or omits to pay, any of the rates or charges leviable under this Act, shall pay to the Authority by way of damages in addition to such rates or charges, a sum equal to the rates or charges so eluded or evaded, or attempted to be eluded or evaded, or neglected or omitted to be paid, and he shall also be guilty of an 

Bintulu Port Authority 57 offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding *two thousand ringgit. List of all goods imported or exported to be left at office of Authority 70. (1) The master or owner of every importing vessel or his agent shall sign and leave at t he office of the Authority, within fourteen days next after the final discharge of all goods imported by the vessel, a full and accurate list of the goods, containing all particulars as to— (a) the gross weight or measurement, marks, numbers and contents of each package; and (b) the names of the consignees according to the bills of lading, or the names of the person actually paying the freight for the goods. (2) Any owner, master or agent who omits or fails to comply with subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding *two thousand ringgit. (3) The owner, charterer, consignor, agent or other person acting in the loading and clearing of every exporting vessel shall prepare a full and accurate lis t or manifest of all goods exported by the vessel from the bills of lading and freight list thereof, and shall sign and leave at the office of the Authority within fourteen days next after the vessel has cleared from the Port a correct transcript of the li st or manifest, distinguishing therein the names of the several shippers of the goods according to the bills of lading. (4) Any owner, charterer, consignor, agent or other person who fails to comply with subsection (3) shall be guilty of an offence and * NOTE—Previously “five hundred ringgit” —see Bintulu Port Authority (Amendment) Act 1992 [Act A831]. 

58 Laws of Malaysia ACT 243 shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding *two thousand ringgit. Penalties to extend as well to principals as servants 71. All penalties imposed by section 69 or 70 shall extend— (a) to the principals in any house of business— (i) by whom o r on whose account, or for whose profitor advantage, such payment has been eluded, evaded, neglected or omitted to be made; or (ii) by whom the lists, manifests and transcripts have been omitted to be made, signed, deposited and left; and (b) to any clerk a nd servant of the principals employed or acting in such house of business. Penalty for disobeying orders of wharf superintendent 72. (1) If the master of a vessel, without the permission of the Authority, brings or causes his vessel to be placed alongsi de any wharf or dock entrance, or acts contrary to the directions or neglects to obey the orders of the wharf superintendent in relation to the time and manner of coming into or going out of any dock, or of coming alongside any wharf, or as to the berth al lotted for his vessel to occupy, or disobeys an order to remove his vessel from the berth or to alter the same, the master or owner of the vessel shall be guilty of an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding one thousand ringgit. (2) Where the master of a vessel which has finished loading or discharging or is waiting for cargo or ballast fails to comply with a notice given to him or to the officer in charge of the vessel by the * NOTE—Previously “five hundred rin ggit”—see Bintulu Port Authority (Amendment) Act 1992 [Act A831]. 

Bintulu Port Authority 59 wharf superintendent directing that the vessel lea ve the wharf, the master or the owner of the vessel shall, in addition to the fine, be liable to pay a sum (by way of damages) assessed at the rate of one-quarter cent per gross registered ton for every hour that the vessel remains at the wharf after the time for departure required by the notice has expired. Penalty for hindrances or obstructions to any member, officer or servant of the Authority 72A. Any person who hinders or obstructs any member, officer or servant of the Authority in the perform ance or execution of his duty or in carrying out anything which he is empowered or required to do by virtue of or in consequence of this Act shall be guilty of an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding one thousand ringgit or t o imprisonment for a term not exceeding six months or to both. Penalty for not keeping vessel so loaded with ballast or otherwise as to be safely removed 73. (1) Every vessel lying alongside a wharf or within any dock shall be kept so equipped, provided and loaded or ballasted by the master or owner as to enable it to be removed with safety whenever it is necessary in the judgment of the wharf superintendent that it shall be removed. (2) The master or owner of a vessel who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding *two thousand ringgit. * NOTE—Previously “one thousand ringgit” —see Bintulu Port Auth ority (Amendment) Act 1992 [Act A831]. 

60 Laws of Malaysia ACT 243 Powers of General Manager or authorized person to order scuttling or removal of vessel in case of fire 74. (1) In the event of fire breaking out on board any vessel in the Port, the General Manager or any person authorized by him may proceed on board the vessel with such assistance and persons as to him seems fit and may give such orders as seem to him necessary for scuttling the vessel or for removing that vessel or any other vessel to such place as to him seems proper to prevent danger to that vessel or any other vessel, and he may take such other measures that appear to him expedient for the protection of life or property. (2) If orders gi ven pursuant to subsection (1) are not forthwith carried out by the master of the vessel, the General Manager or the person authorized by him may himself proceed to carry the orders into effect. (3) Any expenses incurred in the exercise of the powers conferred by subsections (1) and (2) shall be recoverable from the master or owner of the vessel concerned as if it were a fine and in the manner provided by the Criminal Procedure Code [ Act 593] or as a civil debt. Boarding of vessel when commission of offence suspected 75. (1) The General Manager or such person as may be authorized by him may board any vessel within the Port whenever he suspects that an offence under this Act or any rules or by -laws made thereunder has been or is about to be committed on or in the vessel or whenever he considers it necessary so to do in the discharge of his duties under this Act or any rules or by-laws made thereunder. (1A) The General Manager or such person as may be authorized by him may, in exercising his powers and carrying out his duties under subsection (1), seize any article, document or thing which he has reasonable ground for believing has been used for the commission of, or is the subject matter of, or is required for the purpose of investigation and prosecution of, an offence under this Act or any by-laws made thereunder. 

Bintulu Port Authority 61 (2) The master of such vessel who, without lawful excuse, refuses to allow the boarding of such vessel pursuant to subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding *one thousand ringgit. Penalties as to employment of pilot other than Authority pilot 76. (1) Any person who, not being an Authority pilot or a person licensed under subsection 55 A (1), engages in an act of pilotage or attempts to obtain employment as a pilot of a vessel entering or being within a pilotage district shall be guilty of an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding **two thousand ringgit. (2) The master or owner of a vessel entering o r being within a pilotage district who knowingl y employs as pilot a person who is not an Authority pilot or a person licensed under subsection 55A(1) shall be guilty of an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding **two thousand ringgit. (3) For the purposes of this sec tion, an Authority pilot acting beyond the limits of a pilotage distr ict for which he is licensed or in contravention of any condition imposed in his licence shall be deemed not to be an Authority pilot. (4) Any person may, without subjecting himself or his employer to a penalty, act as the pilot of a vessel entering or leaving a pilotage district when the vessel is in distress or under circumstances making it necessary for the mast er to avail himself of the best assistance that can be found at the time. * NOTE—Previously “two hundred ringgit” —see Bintulu Port Authority (Amendment) Act 1992 [Act A831]. **NOTE—Previously “one thousand ringgit” —see Bintulu Port Authority (Amendment) Act 1992 [Act A831]. 

62 Laws of Malaysia ACT 243 Receiving or offering improper rates of pilotage 77. (1) An Authority pilot or a person licensed under subsection 55A(1) shall not demand or receive, and a master, owner or agent shall not offer or pay to the pilot any rate in respect of pilotage services other than the prescribed rate. (2) An Authority pilot or a person licensed under subsection 55A(1), a master, an owner or agent who acts in contravention of this section shall be guilty of an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding *five hundred ringgit and the licence of the pilot may be suspended or cancelled by the Authority. Offences by Authority pilot 78. (1) An Authority pilot, or any person licensed under subsection 55A (1) who— (a) is in any way directly or indirectly concerned in any corrupt practice relating to vessels, their tackle, furniture, cargoes, crews or passengers, or to persons in distress at sea or by shipwreck or to their moneys, goods or chattels; (b) lends his licence; (c) acts as a pilot while suspended; (d) acts as a pilot when in a state of intoxication; (e) refuses or wilfully delays, when not prevented by illness or other reasonable cause, to pilot a vessel within the limits of the pilotage district for which he is licensed upon being required so to do by an officer or servant of the Authority duly authorized in that behalf; or * NOTE—Previously “one hundred ringgit” —see Bintulu Port Authority (Amendment) Act 1992 [Act A831]. 

Bintulu Port Authority 63 (f) quits the vessel under his pilotage without the consent of the master before the service for which he was engaged has been performed, shall be guilty of an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding two thousand ringgit. (2) A person who procures, aids, abets or connives at the commission of an offence under this section shall be guilty of an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding two thousand ringgit. (3) An Authority pilot who commits an offence under this section, or procures, aids, abets or connives at the commission of any such offence shall be liable on conviction to suspension or dismissal by the Authority. (4) Any person licensed under subsection 55 A(1) who commits an offence under this section, or procures, aids, abets or connives at the commission of any such offence shall, on conviction, be liable to suspension or revocation of the licence. Penalty on pilot endangering ship, life or limb 79. An Authority pilot or a person licensed under subsection 55 A(1) who, when engaged in the pilotage of a vessel, by wilful breach of duty or by neglect or by reason of drunkenness— (a) does any act tending to the immediate loss, destruction or serious damage of the vessel, or tending immediately to endanger the life or limb of any person on board the vessel; or (b) refuses or omits to do any lawful act proper a nd requisite to be done by him for preserving the vessel from loss, destruction or serious damage, or for preserving the life of any person belonging to or being on board the vessel from danger to life or limb, 

64 Laws of Malaysia ACT 243 shall be guilty of an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding two thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding two years or both, and shall also be liable on conviction to suspension or dismissal by the Authority: Provided that no person licensed under subsection 55A(1) shall be dismissed by the Authority. Failure to employ Authority pilot or licensed pilot under certain circumstances 80. (1) The master, owner or agent of a vessel navigating in circumstances in which the vessel is required by the A uthority under section 54 to be under pilotage who does not employ an Authority pilot or a person licensed under subsection 55 A(1) for such purpose shall be guilty of an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding five thousand ringgit. (2) Upon being found guilty of any offence under subsection (1), the court before which the master, owner or agent of the vessel is found guilty shall order such master, owner or agent to pay to the Authority the amount certified by the accountant of the Authority to be the amount of dues and rates which would have been payable to the Authority if the vessel had been under pilotage as required by this Act and such amount shall be recoverable in the same manner as a fine. Penalty for false information on draught 81. The master of a vessel— (a) entering or leaving any dock; or (b) intending to enter or leave any dock, or to come alongside or to depart from any wharf, who gives false information relating to the draught of water of the vessel to an officer of the Authority whose duty it is to ascertain the 

Bintulu Port Authority 65 same, shall be guilty of an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding *two thousand ringgit. Penalty for giving false statement in return 82. Any person who makes a statement which is false in any material particular in a return, claim, application, declaration or other document which is required or authorized to be made under this Act or any rules or by-laws made thereunder, shall be guilty of an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding **five thousand ringgit. Penalty for throwing ballast, etc., into dock 83. Any person who throws or empties into a dock any ballast, rubbish, dust, ashes, stones or other refuse or things, or does an act to prejudice any of the works of the Authority, shall be guilty of an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding two thousand ringgit. Authority to recover expenses incurred for act done pursuant to a lawful direction 83A. (1) When any person without lawful excuse refuses or neglects to obey any direction lawfully given under this Act or the by-laws made thereunder the Authority may, irrespective of whether any proceedings have been instituted against or any punishment imposed on such person for the refusal or neglect, do or cause to be done all such acts as are in its opinion reasonable or necessary for the purpose of carrying out such direction. *NOTE—Previously “one thousand ringgit” —see Bintulu Port Authority (Amendment) Act 1992 [Act A831]. **NOTE—Previously “one thousand ringgit” —see Bintulu Port Authority (Amendment) Act 1992 [Act A831]. 

66 Laws of Malaysia ACT 243 (2) The powers conferred by subsection (1) include the power to hire and employ such persons as are necessary and proper for making good whatever loss or damage that has been caused by any refusal or neglect of the person to whom the direction has been given. (3) Any expenses incurred in the exercise of the powers conferred under subsection (1) or (2) shall be recoverable from the person to whom the direction has been given as a civil debt. General penalty 84. Any person who contravenes any of the provisions of this Act or of any rules or by -laws made thereunder shall be guilty of an offence and shall, on conviction, if no penalty is provided therefor, be liable to a fine not exceeding five hundred ringgit. Penalty for contravening section 44 or 45 84A. Any person who contravenes section 44 or 45 shall be guilty of an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding one thousand ringgit. Offence committed by a body corporate: officers deemed to be guilty 84B. Where an offence under this Act or under any of the by laws made thereunder is committed by a body corporate (whether or not the body corporate has been prosecuted) every director, secretary or manager of the body corporate shall be deemed to be guilty of the offence unless he proves that the offence was committed without his consent or conni vance and that he exercised all due diligence to prevent the commission of the offence as he ought to have exercised having regard to the nature of his functions in that capacity and to all the circumstances of the case. 

Bintulu Port Authority 67 Evasion of rates or charges not w aived by subsequent acceptance of payment 85. The tender to, or acceptance by or on behalf of, the Authority of the payment of any rate or charge, which payment has previously been evaded or not made, shall not release or discharge any person from any li ability for damages or penalty provided under this Act, consequent upon such evasion or non-payment. Recovery of damages for injury to property of Authority 86. (1) Where damage is caused to a gate, bridge, pier, jetty, quay, wharf, warehouse, shed, g raving dock, graving block, building or other work belonging to the Authority by a vessel or by any of the persons belonging to or employed about a vessel, an amount to make good the damage may be recovered from the master or owner of the vessel. (2) For the purposes of subsection (1), the Authority may detain the vessel until— (a) the amount to make good the damage has been paid; (b) a deposit equal in amount to the claim or demand made by the Authority for the estimated amount to make good the damage has been made by the master or owner of the vessel; or (c) security is given for the payment of the entire amount to make good the damage. (3) Where a deposit has been made, the Authority shall receive and retain the deposit until the extent of and the amount to make good such damage has been ascertained by the Authority and paid to it by such master or owner. (4) Every deposit made under subsection (2) shall be considered to have been made as payment of or towards the claim or demand for damage referred to in subsection (1), unless notice that the claim is 

68 Laws of Malaysia ACT 243 disputed is given to the Authority within seven days next after the deposit is made. (5) After the expiration of seven days next following such deposit, the Authority may unless— (a) in the meantime notice has been given to it that the claim is disputed; or (b) the amount to make good the damage done by the vessel has been sooner paid, apply the deposit or a sufficient part thereof in making good the damage and the Authority shall return the residue , if any , to such master or owner. (6) Every notice declaring that a claim is disputed shall be in writing and shall contain the name and address of a person within Malaysia who is authorized to act on behalf of such master or owner in reference to such claim. (7) Notwithstanding any written law to the contrary, service of any document or legal process on the person authorized to act under subsection (6) shall be deemed good service on such master or owner for all purposes. Offence may be tried by Magistrate’s Court 87. Any offence under this Act or any rules or by -laws made thereunder may be tried by a Magistrate’s Court of the First Class and, notwithstanding the provisions of any written law to the contrary, such Magistrate may impose the full penalt y provided in respect of such offence. Distress in the event of failure to pay damages or costs 88. (1) The Authority shall, in the event that any damages or costs awarded to it by a court are not forthwith paid, have power to 

Bintulu Port Authority 69 recover the same by way of distress under a warrant issued by the court. (2) The court may order a p erson against whom a warrant of distress has been levied under this section to be kept in safe custody until return can be made to th e warrant, unless the person gives security b y way of recognisance or otherwise for his appearance before the court on the day appointed for the return. (3) If it appears to the court by the admission of the person concerned or otherwise that no sufficient distress can be had within its jurisdictio n for the purpose of recovering the damages or costs awarded to the Authority under this section, the court shall commit the offender to prison for a term not exceeding six months unless the damages or costs are sooner paid and satisfied. Limitation of period of prosecution 89. No prosecution for an offence under this Act or any rules or by-laws made thereunder shall be instituted later than three years from the date of the discovery of the commission of the offence. Power to compound offence 89A. (1) The Minister may, by order to be published in the Gazette, prescribe any offence against the provisions of this Act or of any by - laws made thereunder as an offence which may be compounded by the Authority. (2) The General Manager may, in his discretion , compound such offence prescribed under subsection (1) by accepting from the person reasonably suspected of having committed any such offence a sum of money not exceeding five hundred ringgit. (3) The Minister may, by the same order made under subsecti on (1), prescribe the method and procedure for compounding any offence against the provisions of this Act or of any rules or by -laws made thereunder. 

70 Laws of Malaysia ACT 243 Service on company of summons 90. (1) It shall be sufficient in any summons issued by a Magistrate’s Cou rt under this Act or any rules or by -laws made thereunder, against a firm or company, to direct that the summons be served on the firm or company, or an officer or manager thereof. (2) Service of the summons at the usual place of business of the firm or company shall be deemed to be sufficient service thereof. Conduct of prosecution 91. Without prejudice to the provisions of any other written law, any prosecution in respect of an offence under this Act or any rules or by-laws made thereunder may be c onducted by an officer of the Authority authorized in writing by the Chairman in that behalf. PART IXA SPECIAL POWERS Special powers in emergency 91A. (1) On the occurrence of any public emergency or in the interest of public safety, the Prime Minis ter or any officer specially authorized by him in that behalf may— (a) take temporary possession of any port service or facility established, maintained or worked by any person licensed under this Act; or (b) withdraw either partially or totally the use of any p ort service or facility from any person or class of persons or from the public at large. (2) If any doubt arises as to the existence of a public emergency or whether any act done under subsection (1) was in the interest of public safety, a certificate signed by the Prime Minister and exhibited 

Bintulu Port Authority 71 at such places as the Minister deems fit shall be conclusive proof on the point. (3) Where the Government takes possession of any port service or facility under paragraph (1)(a), adequate compensation shall be paid. PART X TRANSFER, TRANSITIONAL AND GENERAL Transfer of responsibility, etc., from Federal Government to Authority 92. (1) Upon the coming into force of this section, the responsibility of the Federal Government under the Act and all movable and immovable property and other assets, rights, powers, interests and privileges acquired by, accruing to or vested in the Federal Government as a result of its exercising its powers and discharging its responsibility and duties under the Act shall be transferred to and vest in the Authority without further assurance. (2) Upon such transfer, such of the debts, liabilities and obligations incurred by the Federal Government under the Act as the Minister may, with the concurrence of the Minister of Finance, specify by order in the Gazette shall be transferred to and be deemed to have been incurred by the Authority. Minister may appoint persons on temporary basis for purposes of this Act 93. (1) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Act, where the Authority has not been established and its officers and servants not yet appointed and employed, the Minister may, in the interests of the Port, appoint on a temporary basis such persons by such designations as he may determine to carry out such function s and duties as may be entrusted to them for the purposes of this Act, subject to his direction and control. 

72 Laws of Malaysia ACT 243 (2) Such persons may be engaged or employed on such terms and conditions as the Minister may specify and they shall cease to be so engaged or emp loyed on the establishment of the Authority but this shall be without prejudice to their being considered for subsequent appointment and employment as officers and servants of the Authority under section 21. ______________________ SCHEDULE [subsection 4(6)] Persons disqualified for being appointed members of Authority 1. The following persons shall be disqualified for being appointed or being members of the Authority: (a) a person who is of unsound mind or is otherwise incapable of performing his duties; (b) a bankrupt; (c) a person who has been convicted of an offence and sentenced to imprisonment for a term of one year or more. Member to hold office for one year 2. (1) A member (other than the Chairman and the General Manager) of the Authority shall, unless he sooner resigns his office or his appointment is sooner revoked, hold office for one year and shall be eligible for re-appointment. (2) A member of the Authority shall be deemed to have vacated his office if he is absent from Malaysia for a period of more than three months without the prior approval in writing of the Minister. Chairman and three other members to form quorum of Authority 3. (1) The Chairman, or any member presiding in the absence of the Chairman, and three other members shall form a quorum at a meeting of the Authority. (2) In the absence of the Chairman the temporary Chairman and, in his absence, the Deputy Chairman shall preside at a meeting of the Authority and, in the absence of all three of them, the member s present shall choose one of their 

Bintulu Port Authority 73 number to preside and such member may exercise all the powers of the Chairman in respect of that meeting. Chairman to have casting vote 4. (1) If on any question to be determined there is an equality of votes, the Chairman shall have the casting vote in addition to his original vote. (2) Where the Chairman is also the General Manager, he shall have no vote in his capacity as the General Manager. Authority to determine its procedure 5. Subject to this Act, the Authority shall determine its procedure. Authority may appoint committees 6. (1) The Authority may appoint such committees of its members, with or without other persons, as it may determine. (2) Any committee so appointed shall conform to instructions that may from time to time be given to it by the Authority, and the Authority may at any time discontinue or alter the constitution of such committee. (3) Subject to this Act and to the direction of the Authority, the quorum and procedure of a committee shall be determined by the committee. Delegation 7. Subject to its direction and control, the Authority may delegate the exercise of any of its functions and powers under this Act to any of its members or officers or to any of its committees consisting of such number of persons as it shall think fit. Common seal of Authority 8. (1) The common seal of the Authority shall bear such impression as the Authority may approve and such seal may from time to time be broken, changed, altered or made anew by the Authority as it may think fit. (2) Until a seal is approved by the Authority a stamp bearing the description “Bintulu Port Authority” may be used and shall be deemed to be the common seal. 

74 Laws of Malaysia ACT 243 (3) The common seal or the stamp under subparagraph (2) s hall be kept in the custody of the Chairman and shall be authenticated by him and an officer authorized by the Authority in writing to act in that behalf, and all deeds, documents and other instruments purporting to be sealed with the seal or stamp so authenticated shall until the contrary is proved be deemed to have been validly executed: Provided that a document or an instrument which if executed by a person not being a body corporate would not be required to be under seal may in like manner be executed by the Authority; and such document or instrument may be executed on behalf of the Authority by any of its officers or servants generally or specially authorized in writing to so act. (4) The seal of the Authority shall be officially and judicially noticed. Allowances to members 9. There may be paid to such members of the Authority out of its funds such allowances including travelling and subsistence allowances as the Minister may from time to time determine. Declaration of share or interest and disqualification 10. (1) A member of the Authority or of a committee who has or acquires, directly or indirectly by himself, his partner or agent— (a) any share or interest— (i) in a contract or an arrangement made with the Authority; (ii) in any work done for the Authority; or (iii) in a company, firm or an undertaking with which the Authority proposes to enter into a contract or an agreement; or (b) any beneficial interest in immovable property proposed to be purchased or otherwise acquired, or leas ed or otherwise dealt with, by the Authority, shall declare the nature and extent of his share or interest to the Authority or committee, as the case may be. (2) The declaration required to be made by a member under subparagraph (1) shall be made at t he meeting of the Authority or committee at which any question relating to such contract, arrangement, work, purchase or other acquisition or lease 

Bintulu Port Authority 75 or other dealing is first taken into consideration or at the earliest opportunity after the acquisition of such share or interest. (3) For the purposes of this paragraph, a notice given to the other members by a member to the effect that he has such share or interest as is specified in subparagraph (1) and is to be regarded as interested in any such contract, arrangement, work, purchase or other acquisition, or lease or other dealing which may, after the date of the notice, be made with, or be required to be carried out by, the company, firm or undertaking in question shall be deemed to be sufficient declaration of interest in relation thereto: Provided that such notice shall be of no effect unless it is given at a meeting of the Authority or committee or the member concerned takes reasonable steps to ensure that it is brought up and read at the next meeting of the Authority or committee after it is given. (4) Every declaration made in pursuance of this paragraph shall be recorded in the minutes of the meeting at which it is made or read and shall have no effect until it is so recorded. (5) A member shal l not vote upon any resolution or question relating to any such contract, arrangement, work, purchase or other acquisition, or lease or other dealing in which he has any share or interest, whether or not he has declared the same, nor shall he take part in any deliberation (except on the invitation of the Authority or committee) or decision relating thereto or to any matter incidental thereto, and if he shall do so his vote shall not be counted, nor shall he be counted in the quorum present at the meeting fo r the purposes of such resolution or question. (6) A member shall not be deemed to have a share or an interest under this paragraph by reason only of his being a shareholder in the company with which it is proposed that the Authority should enter into a contract or an arrangement unless he has a controlling interest in that company. (7) A member who contravenes any of the provisions of this paragraph shall be guilty of an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding ten thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding five years or both. ___________________ 

76 LAWS OF MALAYSIA ACT 243 BINTULU PORT AUTHORITY ACT 1981 LIST OF AMENDMENTS Amending law Short title In force from Act A680 Act 422 Act A831 Act A937 Bintulu Port Authority (Amendment) Act 1987 Ports (Privatization) Act 1990 Bintulu Port Authority (Amendment) Act 1992 Bintulu Port Authority (Amendment) Act 1995 281991 021990 151992 101995 _____________ 

77 LAWS OF MALAYSIA ACT 243 BINTULU PORT AUTHORITY ACT 1981 LIST OF SECTIONS AMENDED Section Amending authority In force from 1 2 5 5A 5B 9A 13A 14 27 27A 55A 55B 56 60 61 64 66 66A 66B Act A937 Act A831 Act A680 Act A831 Act A680 Act A831 Act A680 Act A831 Act A831 Act A831 Act A680 Act 422 Act A937 Act A831 Act A831 Act A831 Act A831 Act A831 Act A831 Act A831 Act A937 Act A937 101995 151992 281991 151992 281991 151992 281991 151992 151992 151992 281991 021990 101995 151992 151992 151992 151992 151992 151992 151992 101995 101995 66C Act A937 101995 

78 Laws of Malaysia ACT 243 Section 66D 67 69 70 72A 73 75 76 77 78 79 80 81 82 83A 84A 84B 89A 91A Amending authority Act A937 Act A831 Act A831 Act A831 Act A831 Act A831 Act A831 Act A831 Act A831 Act A831 Act A831 Act A831 Act A831 Act A831 Act A831 Act A831 Act A831 Act A831 Act A680 In force from 101995 151992 151992 151992 151992 151992 151992 151992 151992 151992 151992 151992 151992 151992 151992 151992 151992 151992 281991 _____________