LAWS OF MALAYSIA ONLINE VERSION OF UPDATED TEXT OF REPRINT Act 641 CHEMICAL WEAPONS CONVENTIONS ACT 2005 As at 1 November 2021 

2 CHEMICAL WEAPONS CONVENTIONS ACT 2005 Date of Royal Assent ... ... … … … 9 June 2005 Date of publication in the Gazette ... … … 16 June 2005 Latest amendment made by P.U. (A) 115/2021 which came into operation on … … … … … 17 March 2021 

 3 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 641 CHEMICAL WEAPONS CONVENTION ACT 2005 ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS PART I PRELIMINARY Section 1. Short title and commencement 2. Application of the Convention on the Prohibition of the Development, Production, Stockpiling and Use of Chemical Weapons and on Their Destruction 3. Interpretation 4. Prevailing law 5. National Inspector PART II THE NATIONAL AUTHORITY 6. The National Authority 7. Functions and powers of the National Authority 8. Committees of the National Authority 9. Delegation of functions and powers 10. Power of the Minister to issue directions 11. Chairman of the National Authority 12. Temporary Chairman 13. Meetings of the National Authority 

4 Laws of Malaysia ACT 641 Section 14. The National Authority may invite others to meetings 15. Secretary to the National Authority 16. Provision of facilities by Ministry 17. Rules for regulating meetings and proceedings PART III PROHIBITION OF CHEMICAL WEAPONS AND RIOT CONTROL AGENTS 18. Prohibition 19. Riot control agents PART IV TOXIC CHEMICALS Chapter 1 – Permitted Activities 20. Activities for purposes not prohibited under the Convention Chapter 2 – Regime For Toxic Chemicals Listed In Schedule 1 21. Prohibition and exceptions 22. Existing activity 23. Application for authorization 24. Power to issue or refuse authorization 25. Withdrawal of authorization 26. Appeal against the decision of the National Authority 27. Transfer 28. Declaration 29. Changes to a facility 30. Maintenance of documents and register 

 Chemical Weapons Convention 5 Chapter 3 – Regime For Toxic Chemicals Listed In Schedules 2 And 3 Section 31. Declaration 32. Export or import of toxic chemicals in Schedule 2 33. Export or import of toxic chemicals in Schedule 3 34. Changes to a facility 35. Maintenance of documents and register Chapter 4 – Regime For Discrete Organic Chemicals 36. Declaration 37. Maintenance of documents and register PART V INTERNATIONAL INSPECTION 38. International Inspector 39. Inspection 40. Powers of National Authority members in relation to inspection b y International Inspector 41. Warrant for inspection 42. Use of force PART VI ENFORCEMENT 43. Power of enforcement 44. Power of investigation 45. Search and seizure without warrant 46. Access to computerized data 

6 Laws of Malaysia ACT 641 Section 47. Forfeiture of chemical weapons, etc. 48. Cost of holding chemical weapons, etc., seized 49. No costs or damages arising from seizure to be recoverable 50. Protection of informers PART VII MISCELLANEOUS 51. Notice for disclosure of information 52. Information is privileged and confidential 53. Protection of officers 54. Institution of prosecution 55. Obstruction 56. Offences with respect to information 57. Power to amend Schedule 58. General penalty 59. Offences by body corporate 60. Offences by employee or agent 61. Offences outside Malaysia 62. Regulations SCHEDULE 1 SCHEDULE 2 SCHEDULE 3 

 7 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 641 CHEMICAL WEAPONS CONVENTION ACT 2005 An Act to implement the Convention on the Prohibition of the Development, Production, Stockpiling and Use of Chemical Weapons and on their Destruction, and to provide for other matters connected therewith. [1 September 2006, P.U. (B) 231/2006] WHEREAS the Convention on the Prohibition of the Development, Production, Stockpiling and Use of Chemical Weapons and on their Destruction was signed in Paris on 13 January 1993: AND WHEREAS Malaysia deposited her instrument of ratification on 20 April 2000 and therefore in accordance with Article XXI of the Convention, the said Convention entered into force as far as Malaysia is concerned on 20 May 2000: NOW THEREFORE IT IS ENACTED by the Parliament of Malaysia as follows: PART I PRELIMINARY Short title and commencement 1. (1) This Act may be cited as the Chemical Weapons Convention Act 2005. (2) This Act comes into operation on a date to be appointed by the Minister by notification in the Gazette. 

8 Laws of Malaysia ACT 641 Application of the Conventio n on the Prohibition of the Development, Production, Stockpiling and Use of Chemical Weapons and on Their Destruction 2. The Convention on the Prohibition of the Development, Production, Stockpiling and Use of Chemical Weapons and on their Destruction shall h ave the force of law in Malaysia and for that purpose be construed in accordance with the provisions of this Act. Interpretation 3. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires— “riot control agent” means any chemical not listed in Schedule 1, 2 or 3 wh ich can produce rapidly i n humans sensory irritations or disabling physical effects which disappear within a short time following termination of exposure; “this Act” includes any subsidiary legislation made under this Act; “member” means any member of the National Authority appointed under subsection 6(2); “discrete organic chemical” means any chemical belonging to the class of chemical compounds consisting of all compounds of carbon, except for its oxides, sulfides and metal carbonates, identifiable by chemical name, by structural formula, if known, and Chemical Abstracts Service registry number, if assigned; “toxic chemical” means any chemical which through its chemical action on life processes can cause death, temporary incapacitation or permanent harm to humans or animals, and includes precursors of toxic chemicals; “prescribed” means prescribed by the Minister by regulations; “International Inspector” means a person who holds a certificate issued by the Minister under subsection 38(2); 

 Chemical Weapons Convention 9 “National Inspect or” means a person who is appointed by the Minister under subsection 5(1); “facility” means any industrial site which comprises any of the following: (a) any works or factory (“plant site”) which is the local integration of one or more plants with any interme diate administrative levels, which are under one operational control, and includes common infrastructure, such as— (i) administration and other offices; (ii) repair and maintenance shops; (iii) medical centres; (iv) utilities; (v) central analytical laboratories; (vi) research and development laboratories; (vii) central effluent and waste treatment areas; and (viii) warehouse storage areas; (b) any production facility or workshop (“plant”) which is a relatively self -contained area, structure or building containing one or more units with auxiliary and associated infrastructure, such as— (i) a small administrative section; (ii) storage or handling areas for feedstock and products; (iii) an effluent or waste handling or treatment area; (iv) a control or analytical laboratory; 

10 Laws of Malaysia ACT 641 (v) a first aid service section or a relate d medical section; and (vi) records associated with the movement into, around and from the site, of declared chemicals and feedstock or products formed from them, as appropriate; (c) any production unit or process unit (“unit”) which is the combination of items of equipment, including vessels and vessel set up, necessary for the production, processing or consumption of a chemical; “Convention” means the Convention on the Prohibition of the Development, Production, Stockpiling and Use of Chemical Weapons and on Their Destruction; “Minister”, unless otherwise expressly stated, means the Minister charged with the responsibility for foreign affairs; “observer” means a representative of a requesting State Party to the Convention or a third State Party to the Convention p resent in Malaysia to observe a challenge inspection; “challenge inspection” means the inspection of any facility or location in Malaysia or in any other place under the jurisdiction or control of Malaysia requested by another State Party pursuant to paragraphs 8 to 25 of Article IX of the Convention; “conveyance” includes any ship, train, vehicle and aircraft and any other means of transport by which persons or goods can be carried; “Chairman” means the Chairman of the National Authority as specified under paragraph 6(2)(a); “Organization” means the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons established pursuant to Article VIII of the Convention; “National Authority” means the National Authority established under subsection 6(1); 

 Chemical Weapons Convention 11 “precursor” means any chemical reactant which takes part at any stage in the production by whatever method of a toxic chemical, including any key component of a binary or multi -component chemical system; “chemical weapon” means the following, together or separately: (a) toxic chemicals, except where intended for purposes not prohibited under the Convention as long as the types and quantities are consistent with such purposes; (b) munitions and devices specifically designed to cause death or other harm through the toxic properties of the toxic chemicals specified in paragraph (a) which would be released as a result of the employment of such munitions and devices; (c) any equipment specifically designed for use directly in connection with the employment of the munitions and devices specified in paragraph (b); “purposes not prohibited under the Convention” means— (a) industrial, agricultural, research, medical, pharmaceutical or other peaceful purposes; (b) protective purposes, namely those purposes directly related to protection against toxi c chemicals and to protection against chemical weapons; (c) military purposes not connected with the use of chemical weapons and not dependent on the use of the toxic properties of chemicals as a method of warfare; (d) law enforcement, including domestic riot control purposes. 

12 Laws of Malaysia ACT 641 Prevailing law 4. (1) The provisions of this Act shall be in addition to, and not in derogation of, the provisions of any other written law relating to chemical weapons, riot control agents, toxic chemicals intended for purposes which are not prohibited, and discrete organic chemicals. (2) In the event of any conflict or inconsistency between the provisions of this Act and those of any other written law pertaining to chemical weapons, riot control agents, toxic chemicals intended for purposes which are not prohibited and discrete organic chemicals, the provisions of this Act shall prevail and the conflicting or inconsistent provisions of such other written law shall, to the extent of the conflict or inconsistency, be deemed to be superseded. National Inspector 5. (1) The Minister may appoint, from amongst public officers, National Inspectors and other officers as may be necessary for the purposes of this Act. (2) The National Inspectors shall, subject to the general direction and control of the Minister, perform the functions and duties imposed upon them by this Act and may exercise the powers conferred upon them under this Act. (3) The Minister shall issue to each of the National Inspectors and other officers appointed under subsection (1) an authority card for the purposes of the performance of his functions and duties and the exercise of his powers under this Act. (4) All National Inspectors and other officers appointed under subsection (1) are deemed to be public servants within the meaning of the Penal Code [Act 574]. 

 Chemical Weapons Convention 13 PART II THE NATIONAL AUTHORITY The National Authority 6. (1) There shall be established for the purposes of this Act a body to be known as the National Authority. (2) The National Authority shall consist of the following members: (a) a Chairman, to be appointed by the Minister; (b) a representative of the Ministry responsible for foreign affairs, to be appointed by the Minister; (c) a representative of the Ministry responsible for defence, to be appointed by the Minister charged with t he responsibility for defence; (d) a representative of the Ministry responsible for internal security, to be appointed by the Minister charged with the responsibility for internal security; (e) a representative of the Ministry responsible for international trade, to be appointed by the Minister charged with the responsibility for international trade; (f) a representative of the Ministry responsible for technology, to be appointed by the Minister charged with the responsibility for technology; (g) a representative of th e Ministry responsible for the environment, to be appointed by the Minister charged with the responsibility for the environment; (h) the Director of the Pharmaceutical Services Division of the Ministry responsible for health or his representative; (i) the Chairman of the Pesticides Board or his representative; 

14 Laws of Malaysia ACT 641 (j) the Director General of Environmental Quality or his representative; (k) the Inspector General of Police or his representative; (l) the Director General of Customs or his representative; (m) the Director General of Chemistry or his representative; (n) the Director General of Occupational Safety and Health or his representative; and (o) the Director General of Science and Technology Research Institute for Defence or his representative. (3) The relevant Minister may, in respect of each member appointed under paragraphs (2)(b) to (g), appoint an alternate member to attend meetings of the National Authority when the member is for any reason unable to attend. Functions and powers of the National Authority 7. (1) The National Author ity shall perform the function of monitoring and ensuring the implementation of Malaysia’s obligations under the Convention, including — (a) ensuring the effective implementation of this Act; (b) facilitating inspections under the Convention, including co -operati ng with International Inspectors in challenge inspections; (c) gathering the data to be reported in the annual declarations to the Organization; (d) providing the Organization and other State Parties with relevant information in fulfillment of Malaysia’s obligat ions under the Convention; 

 Chemical Weapons Convention 15 (e) regulating and supervising issues or matters relating to the Convention, including the domestic implementation of the Convention; (f) issuing authorization in respect of activities relating to toxic chemicals listed in Schedule 1; (g) issuing directions to any National Inspector for purposes of enforcement and effective implementation of this Act; (h) advising the Minister generally on issues or matters relating to the Convention; (i) levying an y fees, as may be prescribed by the Minister, in respect of services rendered by the National Authority; (j) doing anything incidental or conducive to the performance of any of the functions referred to in paragraphs (a) to (i). (2) The National Authority shall have all such powers as may be necessary for , or in connection with, or reasonabl y incidental to, the performance of its functions under this Act. Committees of the National Authority 8. (1) The National Authority may from time to time appoint such committees as it may deem necessary or expedient to assist it in the performance of its functions and exercise of its powers under this Act. (2) Subject to this Act and any rules made under section 17, each of such committees may regulate its own procedure. (3) Members of such committees may be paid such allowances and other expenses in connection with the work of the committees as the Minister may from time to time determine with the concurrence of the Minister of Finance. 

16 Laws of Malaysia ACT 641 Delegation of functions and powers 9. (1) The National Authority may, subject to such con ditions, limitations or restrictions as it deems fit to impose, delegate any of its functions and powers, except the power to delegate and power to make rules under section 17, to— (a) the Chairman; (b) any member of the National Authority; and (c) a committee. (2) Any person or committee delegated with such functions and powers shall observe and have regard to all conditions and restrictions imposed by the National Authority and all requirements, procedures and matters specified by the National Authority. (3) Any function or power delegated under this section shall be performed and exercised in the name and on behalf of the National Authority. (4) The delegation under this section shall not preclude the National Authority itself from performing or exercising at any time any of the delegated functions and powers. Power of the Minister to issue directions 10. The Minister may from time to time give the National Authority directions not inconsistent with this Act as to the performance of the functions and powers of the National Authority and the National Authority shall give effect to such directions. Chairman of the National Authority 11. (1) The Chairman shall hold office for a term not exceeding two years and is eligible for reappointment upon expiry of his term of office. 

 Chemical Weapons Convention 17 (2) The Chairman may, at any time, resign his office by giving three months written notice to the Minister. (3) The Chairman may be removed— (a) if his conduct, whether in connection with his duties as a Chairman of the National Authority or otherwise, has been such as to bring discredit to the National Authority; (b) if he has become incapable of properly carrying out his duties as a Chairman of the National Authority; (c) if there has been proved against him, or he has been convicted on, a charge in respect of— (i) an offence invo lving fraud, dishonesty or moral turpitude; (ii) an offence under a law relating to corruption; (iii) an offence under this Act; or (iv) any other offence punishable with imprisonment for more than two years; (d) if he is adjudicated a bankrupt; (e) if he has been found or d eclared to be of unsound mind or has otherwise become incapable of managing his affairs; or (f) if he absents himself from three consecutive meetings of the National Authority without obtaining leave in writing from the Minister. (4) If the Chairman is appointed otherwise than from amongst the members of the public services, the Minister may authorize the payment of such allowances as he deems appropriate. 

18 Laws of Malaysia ACT 641 Temporary Chairman 12. (1) The Minister may appoint any member of the National Authority to act as temporary Chairman during any period when— (a) the Chairman is unable for any reason to perform his duties and functions or exercise his powers under this Act; or (b) the office of Chairman is vacant. (2) Any member appointed to act as temporary Chairman during any period under this section may accordingly perform the duties and functions and exercise the powers of the Chairman during such period. Meetings of the National Authority 13. (1) The National Authority shall meet as often as may be necessary for the performance of its functions at such time and at such places as the Chairman may appoint. (2) Seven members including the Chairman shall form the quorum of a meeting of the National Authority (3) The Chairman shall preside over all its meetings. (4) At any meeting of the Nation al Authority, the Chairman shall have a deliberative vote and shall, in the event of an equality of votes, have a casting vote. The National Authority may invite others to meetings 14. (1) The National Authority may invite any person to attend any meeting or deliberation of the National Authority for the purpose of advising it on any matter under discussion. (2) Any person attending the meetin g or deliberation under subsection (1) shall have no right to vote. 

 Chemical Weapons Convention 19 Secretary to the National Authority 15. The Minister shall appoint a public officer to be the Secretary to the National Authority. Provision of facilities by Ministry 16. The Ministry responsible for the National Authority shall provide the National Authority with such staff, funds and other facilities as are necessary to enable it to carry out its functions. Rules for regulating meetings and proceedings 17. Subject to this Act, the National Authority may make rules for regulating its meetings and proceedings, and those of committees appointed under section 8. PART III PROHIBITION OF CHEMICAL WEAPONS AND RIOT CONTROL AGENTS Prohibition 18. (1) No person shall— (a) develop, produce, acquire, stockpile or retain any chemical weapon; (b) transfer, directly or indirectly, any chemical weapon to another person; (c) have in his possession, custody or control any chemical weapon; (d) use any chemical weapon; (e) engage in any unlawful military preparations to use a chemical weapon; or 

20 Laws of Malaysia ACT 641 (f) assist, encourage or induce, in any way, anyone to engage in any activity prohibited to a State Party under the Convention. (2) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) commits an offence and shall on conviction be punished with imprisonment for a term not exceeding thirty years or a fine not exceeding one million ringgit or both. Riot control agents 19. (1) Save for the purpose of maintaining and preserving public order, no person shall use a riot control agent as a method of warfare . (2) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) commits an offence and shall on conviction be punished with imprisonme nt for a term not exceeding thirty years or a fine not exceeding one million ringgit or both. PART IV TOXIC CHEMICALS Chapter 1 – Permitted Activities Activities for purposes not prohibited under the Convention 20. Any person may, subject to the provisions of this Act, develop, produce, acquire, retain, transfer, possess or use toxic chemicals as listed in Schedules 1, 2 and 3 for purposes not prohibited under the Convention. 

 Chemical Weapons Convention 21 Chapter 2 – Regime For Toxic Chemicals Listed In Schedule 1 Prohibition and exceptions 21. (1) Subject to the provisions of this Chapter, no person shall produce, acquire, retain, transfer or use toxic chemicals listed under Schedule 1 unless— (a) such production, acquisition, retention, transfer or use is for research, medical, pharmaceutical or protective purposes; (b) the types and quantities of the toxic chemicals are strictly limited to those which can be justified for such purposes; (c) the aggregate amount of such chemicals at any given time for such purposes is equal to or less than ten kilogrammes for each facility in a calendar year; and (d) production, acquisition, retention, transfer or use is authorized by the National Authority. (2) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) commits an offence and shall on conviction be liable to a fine not exceeding one hundred and fifty thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding seven years or to both. (3) For the purposes of this Chapter, “transfer” includes import, export, or any movement of any amount of a toxic chemical listed in Schedule 1 outside the geographical boundary of a facility in Malaysia to another destination in Malaysia, or any movement as such between two divisions of one company or a sale from one company to another. Existing activity 22. (1) For purposes of section 21, any person engaged in the production, acquisition, retention, transfer or use of toxic chemicals listed in Schedule 1 immediately before the commencement of this Act and intends to continue with that activity on and after such commencement shall, not later than three months from the date of 

22 Laws of Malaysia ACT 641 commencement of this Act, apply to the National Authority for an authorization under this Act. (2) Pending the decision of the National Authority on the application under subsection (1), the applicant shall be deemed to be authorized under this Act and no action shall be taken against him for engaging in such activity without an authorization. (3) Where an authorization is issued by the National Authority under section 24 pursuant to an application made under subsection (1), the applicant shall immediately take the necessary action to comply with any conditions imposed with the authorization. (4) Where the authorization is refused by the National Authority under section 24, the applicant referred to in subsection (2) shall cease to be deemed to be authorized under that subsection from the date he is notified of the decision of the National Authority or, if there is an appeal under section 26, the date of the decision of the Minister on that appeal. Application for authorization 23. (1) An application for authorization under subsection 21(1) shall be made in the prescribed form to the National Authority and shall be accompanied by such documents or information as may be prescribed. (2) The National Authority may, at any time after receiving the application under subsection (1) and before it is determined, by a written notice, require the applicant to provide such additional documents or information as the National Authority deems necessary. (3) Where any additional documents or information required under subsection (3) is not provided by the applicant within the time specified in the notice or any extended time granted by the National Authority, the application shall be deemed to be withdrawn and shall not be further proceeded with, but without prejudice to a fresh application being made by the applicant. (4) An application under this section may be withdrawn at any time before the authorization applied for is granted or refused. 

 Chemical Weapons Convention 23 Power to issue or refuse authorization 24. (1) Upon receipt of an applic ation together with the documents and information required under section 23, the National Authority may issue an authorization in the prescribed form or may refuse to issue an authorization without assigning any reasons for the refusal. (2) The National Author ity in issuing an authorization under subsection (1), may impose any conditions as the National Authority deems fit and may add to, vary or revoke such conditions from time to time. (3) Where the National Authority refuses to issue an authorization, the Nation al Authority shall immediately notify the applicant in writing of its refusal. (4) The authorization, unless sooner withdrawn, shall be valid for such period as may be specified in the authorization. (5) A person, whose authorization issued under subsection (1) ha s expired, may within thirty days before the date of expiry apply for a new authorization in accordance with section 23. (6) Where any person who is authorized to produce, acquire, retain, transfer or use a toxic chemical listed in Schedule 1 intends to ce ase such activity, that person shall within seven days before such cessation — (a) notify the National Authority in writing; and (b) deliver the authorization to the National Authority, and on receipt of such notification and authorization, the National Authority shall immediately cancel the authorization. Withdrawal of authorization 25. (1) The National Authority may withdraw an authorization issued under section 24 if it is satisfied that— 

24 Laws of Malaysia ACT 641 (a) the person to whom it was issued has failed to comply with any obligation imposed upon him under this Act; (b) such person has contravened any of the conditions of the authorization, or any provision of this Act, regardless of the fact that there has been no prosecution for an offence in respect of such contravention; (c) such person has been convicted of an offence under this Act; or (d) such person has, either in connection with the application for the authorization, or at any time after the issuance of the authorization, provided false or misleading or inaccurate information to the National Authority. (2) The National Authority shall issue a notice in writing of such withdrawal to the person to whom the authorization was issued. (3) The withdrawal of an authorization issued to a person shall take effect — (a) where there is no appeal against such wi thdrawal, on the expiration of fourteen days from the date on which the notice of withdrawal is served on such person; or (b) where there is an appeal against such withdrawal, when the withdrawal is confirmed by the Minister. Appeal against the decision of the National Authority 26. (1) Any person who is aggrieved by any decision of the National Authority may appeal to the Minister in the prescribed manner within 30 days from the date the decision is communicated to such person. (2) The Minister’s decision on a n appeal under subsection (1) shall be final. 

 Chemical Weapons Convention 25 Transfer 27. (1) Where any person is authorized to transfer a toxic chemical listed in Schedule 1, that person shall not— (a) retransfer the toxic chemical to a third State; or (b) transfer the toxic chemical to any S tate not Party to the Convention. (2) Any person who contravenes paragraph (1) (a) or (b) commits an offence and shall on conviction be liable to a fine not exceeding one hundred and fifty thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding seven years or to both. Declaration 28. (1) Any person who is authorized to produce, acquire, retain, transfer or use a toxic chemical listed in Schedule 1 in an amount which is more than such threshold amount as may be prescribed, shall make the following periodic declarations to the National Authority in such form and at such time as may be prescribed: (a) an annual declaration on activities in the previous calendar year; and (b) an annual declaration on anticipated activities for the following calendar year. (2) The declaration under subsection (1) shall be in relation to— (a) the identity of the facility; (b) the name of toxic chemicals including the structural formula of the toxic chemicals and Chemical Abstracts Service registry number (if assigned); (c) the purposes for which the toxic chemicals are used; (d) the quantity of the toxic chemicals for the purposes for which the toxic chemicals are used; and 

26 Laws of Malaysia ACT 641 (e) such other matters relevant to a declaration , as may be prescribed. (3) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) commits an offence and shall on conviction be liable to a fine not exceeding one hundred thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding five years or to both. Changes to a facility 29. (1) Any person who has made a declaration under section 28 in relation to a facility shall, if there is any change at such facility, submit information in relation to such change and such other information as may be prescribed to the National Authority. (2) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) commits an offence and shall on conviction be liable to a fine not exceeding one hundred thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding five years or to both. Maintenance of documents and register 30. (1) Any person who is authorized to produce, acquire, retain, transfer or use a toxic chemical listed in Schedule 1 shall— (a) maintain a register in such form as may be prescribed; and (b) keep for a prescribed period all documents, concerning the operation of his facility in relation to the toxic chemicals. (2) The register shall— (a) be kept solely for the purpose of entering such records and information as may be prescribed; (b) be kept up to date and in good order and condition; and (c) be kept for the prescribed period. 

 Chemical Weapons Convention 27 (3) The person mentioned in subsection (1) shall make the register available for i nspection as and when required by the National Authority, any National Inspector, any police officer not below the rank of an Inspector, and any Senior Officer of Customs. (4) Any person who contravenes subsection (1), (2) or (3) commits an offence and shall o n conviction be liable to a fine not exceeding one hundred thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding five years or to both. Chapter 3 – Regime For Toxic Chemicals Listed In Schedules 2 And 3 Declaration 31. (1) Any person who— (a) produces, processes, consumes, exports or imports a toxic chemical listed in Schedule 2 in an amount which is more than such threshold amount as may be prescribed; or (b) produces, imports or exports a toxic chemical listed in Schedule 3 in an amount which is more than such threshold amount as may be prescribed, shall make the following periodic declarations to the National Authority in such form and at such time as may be prescribed: (aa) an annual declaration on activities in the previous calendar year; and (bb) an annual decl aration on anticipated activities for the following calendar year. (2) The declaration under subsection (1) shall be in relation to— (a) the identity of the facility; (b) the name of toxic chemicals including the structural formula of the toxic chemicals and Chemical Abstracts Service registry number (if assigned); 

28 Laws of Malaysia ACT 641 (c) the purposes for which the toxic chemicals are used; (d) the quantity of the toxic chemicals for the purposes for which the toxic chemicals are used; and (e) such other matters relevant to a declaration , as may be prescribed. (3) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) commits an offence and shall on conviction be liable to a fine not exceeding one hundred thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding five years or to both. Export or import of toxic chemicals in Schedule 2 32. (1) Any person who engages in any of the activities specified in paragraph 31(1)(a) shall not export or import toxic chemicals to any State not Party to the Convention. (2) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) commits an offenc e and shall on conviction be liable to a fine not exceeding one hundred thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding five years or to both. Export or import of toxic chemicals in Schedule 3 33. (1) Any person who engages in any of the activ ities specified in paragraph 31(1)(b) shall not export or import toxic chemicals to any State not Party to the Convention without an end -user certificate issued in the prescribed form by the National Authority. (2 ) An y p ers o n wh o co n t rav en es sub s ecti o n (1) co m mi ts an o ffen ce an d s h all o n co n vict i on b e li abl e t o a fi n e n ot ex ceed i n g on e h un d red th o u s an d ri n ggit o r t o im p ris on m ent fo r a t erm n ot ex ceed i n g fiv e years o r to bo t h. 

 Chemical Weapons Convention 29 Changes to a facility 34. (1) Any person who has made a declaration under section 31 in relation to a facility shall, if there is any change at such facility, submit information in relation to such change and such other information as may be prescribed to the National Authority. (2) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) commits an offence and shall on conviction be liable to a fine not exceeding one hundred thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding five years or to both. Maintenance of documents and register 35. (1) Any person who engages in any of the activities s pecified in paragraph 31(1)(a) or (b), as the case may be, shall— (a) maintain a register in such form as may be prescribed; and (b) keep for a prescribed period all documents, concerning the operation of his facility in relation to the toxic chemicals. (2) The register shall— (a) be kept solely for the purpose of entering such records and information as may be prescribed; (b) be kept up to date and in good order and condition; and (c) be kept for the prescribed period. (3) The person mentioned in subsection (1) shall make the regis ter available for inspection as and when required by the National Authority, any National Inspector, any police officer not below the rank of an Inspector , and any Senior Officer of Customs. 

30 Laws of Malaysia ACT 641 (4) Any person who contravenes subsection (1), (2) or (3) commits an offence and shall on conviction be liable to a fine not exceeding one hundred thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding five years or to both. Chapter 4 – Regime For Discrete Organic Chemicals Declaration 36. (1) Any person who engages in the production by synthesis of discrete organic chemicals in an amount which is more than such threshold amount as may be prescribed shall make the following periodic declarations to the National Authority in such form and at such time as may be prescribed: (a) an annual declaration on activities in the previous calendar year; and (b) an annual declaration on anticipated activities for the following calendar year. (2) The declaration under subsection (1) shall be in relation to— (a) the identity of the facility; (b) the names of the discrete organic chemicals; (c) the quantity of the discrete organic chemicals used; and (d) such other matters relevant to a declaration , as may be prescribed. (3) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) commits an offence and shall on conviction be liab le to a fine not exceeding one hundred thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding five years or to both. 

 Chemical Weapons Convention 31 Maintenance of documents and register 37. (1) Any person who engages in any of the activities specified in section 36 shall— (a) maintain a register in such form as may be prescribed; and (b) keep for a prescribed period all documents, concerning the operation of his facility in relation to the discrete organic chemicals. (2) The register shall— (a) be kept solely for the purpose of entering such recor ds and information as may be prescribed; (b) be kept up to date and in good order and condition; and (c) be kept for the prescribed period. (3) The person mentioned in subsection (1) shall make the register available for inspection as and when required by the Nationa l Authority, any National Inspector, any police officer not below the rank of Inspector , and any Senior Officer of Customs. (4) Any person who contravenes subsection (1), (2) or (3) commits an offence and shall on conviction be liable to a fine not exceeding o ne hundred thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding five years or to both . PART V INTERNATIONAL INSPECTION International Inspector 38. (1) The Minister may issue to any person who is a member of an inspection team of the Technical Secre tariat 

32 Laws of Malaysia ACT 641 of the Organization a certificate to be an International Inspector for the purposes of this Act. (2) A certificate issued to a person under subsection (1) shall contain the following particulars: (a) the identity of the person including the person’s nam e, status and authority to conduct inspection in Malaysia; (b) the privileges and immunities applicable to the person; and (c) any other information and any condition applicable to the person’s inspection activities in Malaysia as the Minister deems fit. Inspection 39. (1) Subject to this Act, an International Inspector may, at any reasonable time and consistent with the provisions of this Act and the Convention— (a) enter any facility in Malaysia— (i) in respect of which declaration has been made under Part IV; (ii) that is subject to an on -site challenge inspection referred to in paragraph 8 of Article IX of the Convention; or (iii) in respect of which an investigation under paragraph 9 of Article X of the Convention has been initiated; (b) carry out inspection at the facility in a ma nner consistent with the provisions of this Act and the Convention; and (c) install, use and maintain, where appropriate, in respect of any such facility monitoring instruments, systems and seals in a manner consistent with the provisions of this Act and the Convention. 

 Chemical Weapons Convention 33 (2) Any International Inspector shall, upon being requested by the owner or person in charge of a facility to be inspected by the International Inspector, produce the certificate to that person for verification of his identity. (3) While carrying out a challenge inspection, an International Inspector may be accompanied by an observer for the purpose of giving effect to paragraph 12 of Article IX of the Convention. Powers of National Authority members in relation to inspection by International Inspector 40. (1) An inspection under section 39 shall not be carried out unless the International Inspector is accompanied by a member of the National Authority or a National Inspector. (2) Any member of the National Authority or a National Inspector may direct the own er or any person in charge of the facility being inspected to— (a) provide the International Inspector with access to any area, container or thing at the facility being inspected in a manner consistent with the provisions of this Act and the Convention; (b) permit the International Inspector to examine anything at the facility being inspected; (c) permit the International Inspector to make copies of any information contained in the records, documents or computerized data kept or used in relation to the facility being i nspected and to remove such copies from that facility; (d) permit the International Inspector to take photographs of anything in the facility being inspected; (e) permit the International Inspector to interview any person at the facility being inspected; and 

34 Laws of Malaysia ACT 641 (f) permit the International Inspector to take samples for analysis in the facility, conveyance or any other place being inspected. (3) Any person who contravenes subsection (2) commits an offence and shall on conviction be liable to a fine not exceeding one hundred thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding five years or to both. Warrant for inspection 41. (1) Where the consent of the owner or person in charge of any facility to enter such facility for the purposes referred to in section 39 cannot be obtained, any member of the National Authority or a National Inspector may apply for a warrant on behalf of the International Inspector. (2) A Magistrate to whom an application for a warrant is made under this subsection may, if he is satisfied by informat ion on oath affirmed by any member of the National Authority or a National Inspector that — (a) the conditions for entry described in section 39 have been met in relation to that facility; (b) entry to the facility is necessary for any purpose relating to the administration of this Act; and (c) entry to the facility has been refused, issue a warrant authorizing the member of the National Authority or a National Inspector and the named International Inspector to enter the facility for the purposes of the inspection r eferred to in section 39, subject to such conditions as may be specified in the warrant. Use of force 42. Where force is required to enter any facility specified in a warrant issued under section 41, the person executing 

 Chemical Weapons Convention 35 the warrant may request for the a ssistance of a police officer to use such force as is reasonable in the circumstances. PART VI ENFORCEMENT Power of enforcement 43. (1) A National Inspector, a police officer not below the rank of Inspector or a Senior Officer of Customs may exercise all the powers of enforcement under this Act. (2) Every National Inspector, police officer not below the rank of Inspector or Senior Officer of Customs, when acting against any person under this Act, shall declare his office and shall on demand produce to the person against whom he is acting any authority card which has been issued to the National Inspector or officer. Power of investigation 44. (1) Any National Inspector, police officer not below the rank of Inspector or Senior Officer of Customs shall have th e power to investigate any offence under this Act. (2) For the purpose of subsection (1), the Criminal Procedure Code [Act 593] shall apply and the National Inspector, a police officer not below the rank of Inspector or a Senior Officer of Customs shall have all the powers as provided for under the Criminal Procedure Code. Search and seizure without warrant 45. (1) In addition to the powers as provided for under the Criminal Procedure Code, where a National Inspector, a police officer not below the rank of Inspector or a Senior Officer of Customs has reasonable grounds for believing that by reason of the delay in 

36 Laws of Malaysia ACT 641 obtaining a search warrant the investigation would be adversely affected or evidence of the commission of an offence is likely to be tampered with , removed, damaged or destroyed, the National Inspector, police officer not below the rank of Inspector or Senior Officer of Customs may enter any facility, conveyance or other place and seize any chemical weapon, riot control agent or toxic chemical listed in Schedule 1, 2 or 3, or any receptacle, package, conveyance or other article in which the chemical weapon, riot control agent or toxic chemical is stored, kept or found, record, book, account, document or computerized data. (2) Except as provided in subsec tion (3), where any chemical weapon, riot control agent or toxic chemical listed in Schedule 1, 2 or 3, and any receptacle, package, conveyance or other article in which the chemical weapon, riot control agent or toxic chemical is stored, kept or found, re cord, book, account, document or computerized data are seized under subsection (1), the seizing officer shall prepare a list of the things seized and immediately deliver a copy signed by him to the owner or person in charge of the facility, conveyance or o ther place which has been searched, or to such owner’s or person’s agent or servant, at that facility, conveyance or other place. (3) Where the facility, conveyance or other place is unoccupied, the seizing officer shall whenever possible post a list of the things seized conspicuously at that facility, conveyance or other place. Access to computerized data 46. (1) A National Inspector, a police officer not below the rank of Inspector or a Senior Officer of Customs conducting a search under this Act shall be given access to computerized data whether stored in a computer or otherwise. (2) In this section, “access” includes being provided with the necessary password, encryption code, decryption code, software or hardware and any other means required to enable comprehensio n of the computerized data. 

 Chemical Weapons Convention 37 Forfeiture of chemical weapons, etc. 47. (1) All chemical weapons, riot control agents and toxic chemicals listed in Schedules 1, 2 and 3, together with any receptacle, package, conveyance or other article in which the chemical weapons, riot control agents and toxic chemicals are stored, kept or found, record, book, account, document or computerized data seized in the exercise of any power conferred under this Act are liable to forfeiture. (2) The court trying any person accused of an offence under this Act may at the conclusion of the trial, whether he is convicted or not, order that the chemical weapons, riot control agents and toxic chemicals listed in Schedules 1, 2 and 3, together with any receptacle, package, conveyance or other article in which the chemical weapons, riot control agents and toxic chemicals are stored, kept or found, record, book, account, document or computerized data seized from that person be destroyed. (3) Where there is no prosecution with regard to any chemical weapons, riot control agents and toxic chemicals listed in Schedules 1, 2 and 3, the chemical weapons, riot control agents and toxic chemicals listed in Schedules 1, 2 and 3, together with any receptacle, package, conveyance or other article in which the chemical weapons, riot control agents and toxic chemicals are stored, kept or found, record, book, account, document or computerized data shall be taken and deemed to be forfeited at the expiration of one calendar month from the date they were seized unless a claim is made before that date in the manner set out in subsections (4), (5) and (6). (4) A claim under subsection (3) can only be made in respect of toxic chemicals listed in Schedules 1, 2 and 3, records, books, accounts, documents or computerized data. (5) Any p erson asserting that he is the owner of any toxic chemicals listed in Schedules 1, 2 and 3, books, documents or computerized data seized under this Act and that the toxic chemicals, records, books, accounts, documents or computerized data are not liable to forfeiture may personally or by his agent authorized in writing by him, give notice to the seizing officer of his claim. 

38 Laws of Malaysia ACT 641 (6) On receipt of a notice under subsection (5), the seizing officer shall refer the matter to the Sessions Court for decision. (7) The court to which the matter is referred shall issue a summons requiring the person asserting that he is the owner of the toxic chemicals listed in Schedules 1, 2 and 3, records, books, accounts, documents or computerized data and the person from whom they were seized to appear before the court and upon their appearance or default to appear, due service of the summons being proved, the court shall proceed to the examination of the matter, and on proof that an offence under this Act has been committed and that such t oxic chemicals, records, books, accounts, documents or computerized data were the subject -matter of or were used in the commission of such offence, shall order the toxic chemicals, books, documents or computerized data to be forfeited or may, in the absence of such proof, order the release of such toxic chemicals, books, documents or computerized data to the person entitled to them. (8) Any chemical weapon, riot control agent or toxic chemical listed in Schedule 1, 2 or 3, together with any receptacle, package, conveyance or other article in which the chemical weapon, riot control agent or toxic chemical is stored, kept or found, record, book, account, document or computerized data forfeited or deemed to be forfeited shall be delivered to the National Authority who shall dispose of it in any manner it deems fit. Cost of holding chemical weapons, etc., seized 48. Where any chemical weapon, riot control agent or toxic chemical listed in Schedule 1, 2 or 3, or any receptacle, package, conveyance or other article in whic h the chemical weapon, riot control agent or toxic chemical is stored, kept or found, record, book, account, document or computerized data seized under this Act is held in the custody of the Government pending completion of any proceedings in respect of an offence under this Act, the cost of holding such thing in custody shall, in the event of any person being found guilty of an offence, be a debt due to the Government by such person and shall be recoverable accordingly. 

 Chemical Weapons Convention 39 No costs or damages arising from seizure to be recoverable 49. No person shall, in any proceedings before any court in respect of any chemical weapon, riot control agent or toxic chemical listed in Schedule 1, 2 or 3, or any receptacle, package, conveyance or other article in which the ch emical weapon, riot control agent or toxic chemical is stored, kept or found, record, book, account, document or computerized data seized in the exercise or the purported exercise of any power conferred under this Act, be entitled to the costs of such proc eedings or to any damages or other relief unless such seizure was made without reasonable cause. Protection of informers 50. (1) Except as provided in this section, no witness in any civil or criminal proceedings shall be obliged or permitted to disclose the name or address of any informer or the substance and nature of the information received from him or to state any matter which may lead to his discovery. (2) If any record, book, account, document or computerized data which is in evidence or is liable to in spection in any civil or criminal proceedings contains any entry in which any informer is named or described or which might lead to his discovery, the court shall cause all such entries to be concealed from view or to be obliterated so far only as may be n ecessary to protect the informer from discovery. (3) If in a trial for any offence under this Act the court after full inquiry into the case believes that the informer wilfully made in his complaint a material statement which he knew or believed to be false or did not believe to be true, or if in any other proceeding the court is of the opinion that justice cannot be fully done between the parties to the proceeding without the discovery of the informer, it shall be lawful for the court to require the 

40 Laws of Malaysia ACT 641 production of the original complaint, if in writing, and permit inquiry and require full disclosure concerning the informer. PART VII MISCELLANEOUS Notice for disclosure of information 51. (1) The National Authority may send a notice to any person whom the Na tional Authority believes on reasonable grounds has information or documents relevant to the enforcement of this Act, requesting the person to provide the information or documents to the National Authority. (2) A person who receives a notice referred to in sub section (1), shall provide the requested information and documents to the National Authority in the prescribed form and within the time specified in the notice. (3) Any person who contravenes subsection (2) , commits an offence. Information is privileged and confidential 52. (1) Any information and document obtained pursuant to this Act or the Convention are privileged and confidential. (2) The information and documents in subsection (1) are not privileged or confidential if they are required to be disclosed or communicated for the purpose of national interest, national security or under any written law. (3) No person in possession of privileged or confidential information or documents shall knowingly, without the written consent of the person from whom they were obtaine d, communicate 

 Chemical Weapons Convention 41 them or allow them to be communicated to any person, or allow any person to have access to them, except— (a) for the purpose of the enforcement of this Act or of giving effect to the Convention; or (b) pursuant to an obligation of the Government of Malaysia under the Convention. (4) Notwithstanding any other written laws, no person shall be required, in connection with any legal proceedings, to produce any statement or other record containing privileged or confidential information or documents, or to give evidence relating to them, unless the proceedings relate to the enforcement of this Act. Protection of officers 53. No action or prosecution shall be brought, instituted or maintained in any court against the National Authority, a National Inspector, any officer duly appointed under this Act, a police officer or a Senior Officer of Customs for or on account of or in respect of any act ordered or done for the purpose of carrying into effect this Act if the act was done in good faith and that it was necessa ry for the purpose intended to be served thereby. Institution of prosecution 54. No prosecution for or in relation to any offence under this Act shall be instituted except by or with the written consent of the Public Prosecutor. Obstruction 55. (1) No person shall obstruct, impede or interfere with any member of the National Authority, an International Inspector, a National Inspector, any officer duly appointed under this Act, a police officer or a Senior Officer of Customs in the performance of his functio ns under this Act. 

42 Laws of Malaysia ACT 641 (2) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) , commits an offence. Offences with respect to information 56. (1) Any person who submits false or misleading information in any application, report or other document for any purpose under thi s Act commits an offence. (2) Any person who— (a) furnishes or causes to be furnished to any National Inspector, police officer not below the rank of Inspector or Senior Officer of Customs any false or misleading particular, information or statement in respect of any matter which such officer requires to be given under this Act; (b) refuses to answer or gives a false answer to any question put to him by any National Inspector, police officer not below the rank of Inspector or Senior Officer of Customs for the purpose of obtaining any particulars, information or statement required to be given under this Act; or (c) fails or refuses to produce any document as may be required by any National Inspector, police officer not below the rank of Inspector or Senior Officer of Customs, commits an offence. Power to amend Schedule 57. Where any amendment is made to the Convention pursuant to Article XV of the Convention, the Minister may, by order published in the Gazette , amend the Schedule in accordance with the amendment to the Convention. 

 Chemical Weapons Convention 43 General penalty 58. Any person who commits an offence under this Act for which no penalty is expressly provided, shall on conviction be liable to a fine not exceeding fifty thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding two years or to both. Offences by body corporate 59. Where any offence against any provision of this Act has been committed by a body corporate, any person who at the time of the commission of the offence was a director, manager, secretary or other similar officer of the body corporate or was purporting to act in any such capacity, or was in any manner or to any extent responsible for the management of any of the affairs of such body corporate, or was assisting in such management, shall also be guilty of that offenc e unless he proves that the offence was committed without his knowledge, consent or connivance and that he exercised all such diligence to prevent the commission of the offence as he ought to have exercised, having regard to the nature of his functions in that capacity and to all the circumstances. Offences by employee or agent 60. Where any person would be liable under this Act to any punishment or penalty for any act, omission, neglect or default, such person shall be liable to the same punishment or penalty for every such act, omission, neglect or default of any employee or agent of his or of the employee of such agent, if such act, omission, neglect or default was committed by the person’s employee in the course of his employment, or by the agent when ac ting on behalf of the person, or by the employee of such agent in the course of his employment by such agent or otherwise on behalf of the agent. Offences outside Malaysia 61. (1) Any person who does or omits to do, outside Malaysia, an act and the doing of that act or the omission of that act would, if done or 

44 Laws of Malaysia ACT 641 omitted in Malaysia, be an offence under this Act, shall, if the person is a Malaysian citizen or a permanent resident, be deemed to have done that act or omitted to do that act in Malaysia. (2) Any proceedings against any person under this section which would be a bar to subsequent proceedings against such person for the same offence if such offence was committed in Malaysia, shall be a bar to further proceedings against him under any written law rel ating to the extradition of persons in respect of the same offence outside Malaysia. Regulations 62. (1) The Minister may make such regulations as may be necessary or expedient for giving full effect to the provisions of this Act. (2) Without prejudice to the generality of subsection (1), regulations may be made— (a) to prescribe the procedures to be followed by members of the National Authority in exercising their functions under this Act; (b) to prescribe any forms for the purposes of this Act; (c) to prescribe on any information to be furnished and any declaration to be submitted for the purposes of this Act; (d) to prescribe the procedures for making application for authorization and the determination of questions in connection with the issuance and withdrawal of the authorization and the conditions to be attached to the authorization and the procedures in connection with appeals; (e) to prescribe the procedures for application of end -user certificate, and conditions to be attached to the end -user certificate; (f) to prescribe the fees to be paid under this Act and the manner for collecting and dealing with such fees; 

 Chemical Weapons Convention 45 (g) to prescribe the form of register to be kept and maintained by the owner of the facility and information to be recorded in such register; (h) to provide for any matte r which under this Act is required or permitted to be prescribed or which is necessary or expedient to be prescribed. SCHEDULE 1 TOXIC CHEMICALS (Chapters 1 and 2) (Chemical Abstract Service registry number) A. Toxic chemicals (not including their precursors): 1. O-Alkyl (<C10, incl. cycloalkyl) alkyl (Me, Et, n-Pr or i-Pr)- phosphonofluoridates e.g. Sarin: O-Isopropyl methylphosphonofluoridate (10788) Soman: O-Pinacolyl methylphosphonofluoridate (960) 2. O-Alkyl (<C10, incl. cycloalkyl) N,N-dialkyl (Me, Et, n-Pr or i-Pr) phosphoramidocyanidates e.g. Tabun: O-Ethyl N,N-dimethyl phosphoramidocyanidate (776) 3. O-Alkyl (H or <C10, incl. cycloalkyl) Sdialkyl (Me, Et, n-Pr or i-Pr)- aminoethyl alkyl (Me, Et, n-Pr or i-Pr) phosphonothiolates and corresponding alkylated or protonated salts e.g. VX: O-Ethyl Sdiisopropylaminoethyl methyl phosphonothiolate (507829) 4. Sulfur mustards 2-Chloroethylchloromethylsulfide (26255) Mustard gas: Bis(2-chloroethyl)sulfide (5052) Bis(2-chloroethylthio)methane (638696) Sesquimustard: 1, 2 Bis(2-chloroethylthio)ethane (35638) 1,3- Bis(2-chloroethylthio)-n-propane (639052) 1,4- Bis(2-chloroethylthio)-n-butane (1428687) 1,5- Bis(2-chloroethylthio)-n-pentane (1428688) 

46 Laws of Malaysia ACT 641 Bis(2-chloroethylthiomethyl)ether (639181) O-Mustard: Bis(2-chloroethylthioethyl)ether (639188) 5. Lewisites Lewisite 1: 2-Chlorovinyldichloroarsine (5413) Lewisite 2: Bis(2-chlorovinyl)chloroarsine (403348) Lewisite 3: Tris(2-chlorovinyl)arsine (403341) 6. Nitrogen mustards HN1: Bis(2-chloroethyl)ethylamine (5388) HN2: Bis(2-chloroethyl)methylamine (512) HN3: Tris(2-chloroethyl)amine (5551) 7. Saxitoxin (355238) 8. Ricin (90093) (Chemical Abstract Service registry number) A. Toxic chemicals (not including their precursors): 8A. Р-alkyl (H or ≤C10, incl. cycloalkyl) N-(1-(dialkyl(≤C10, incl. cycloalkyl)amino)) alkylidene(H or ≤C10, incl. cycloalkyl) phosphonamidic fluorides and corresponding alkylated or protonated salts e.g. N-(1-(di-n-decylamino)-n- decylidene)-P- (23874958) decylphosphonamidic fluoride Methyl-(1-(diethylamino) (23874968) ethylidene) phosphonamidofluoridate 8B. O-alkyl (H or ≤C10, incl. cycloalkyl) N-(1-(dialkyl(≤C10, incl. cycloalkyl)amino)) alkylidene (H or ≤C10, incl. cycloalkyl) phosphoramidofluoridates and corresponding alkylated or protonated salts e.g. O-n-Decyl N-(1-(di-n-decylamino)-n- (23874964) decylidene) phosphoramidofluoridate Methyl (1-(diethylamino)ethylidene) (23874968) phosphoramidofluoridate Ethyl (1-(diethylamino)ethylidene) (23874960) phosphoramidofluoridate 8C. Methyl-(bis(diethylamino)methylene) (23874960) phosphonamidofluoridate 8D. Carbamates (quaternaries and bisquaternaries of dimethylcarbamoyloxypyridines) 

 Chemical Weapons Convention 47 Quaternaries of dimethylcarbamoyloxypyridines: 1-[N,N-dialkyl(≤C10)-N-(n-(hydroxyl, cyano, acetoxy)alkyl(≤C10)) ammonio]-n-[N-(3- dimethylcarbamoxy-α-picolinyl)-N, N-dialkyl(≤C10) ammonio]decane dibromide (n=1-8) e.g. 1-[N,N-dimethyl-N-(2-hydroxy) (771042) ethylammonio][N-(3- dimethylcarbamoxy-α-picolinyl)-N, N-dimethylammonio]decane dibromide Bisquaternaries of dimethylcarbamoyloxypyridines: 1,n-Bis[N-(3-dimethylcarbamoxy-α-picolyl)-N, N-dialkyl(≤C10) ammonio]-alkane- (2,(n-1)-dione) dibromide (n=2-12) e.g. 1,10-Bis[N-(3-dimethylcarbamoxy- (771048) α-picolyl)-N-ethyl-N- methylammonio]decane-2, 9-dione dibromide B. Precursors: 9. Alkyl (Me, Et, n-Pr or i-Pr) phosphonyldifluorides e.g. DF: Methylphosphonyldifluoride (6763) 10. O-Alkyl (H or <C10, incl. cycloalkyl) 0dialkyl (Me, Et, n-Pr or i-Pr)- aminoethyl alkyl (Me, Et, n-Pr or i-Pr)- phosphonites and corresponding alkylated or protonated salts e.g. QL: O-Ethyl 0diisopropylaminoethyl (578568) methylphosphonite 11. Chlorosarin: O-Isopropyl methylphosphonochloridate (14457) 12. Chlorosoman: O-Pinacolyl methylphosphonochloridate (70405) SCHEDULE 2 TOXIC CHEMICALS (Chapters 1 and 3) 

48 Laws of Malaysia ACT 641 (Chemical Abstract Service registry number) A. Toxic chemicals (not including their precursors): 1. Amiton: 0,0-Diethyl S-[2-(diethylamino)ethyl] phosphorothiolate (785) and corresponding alkylated or protonated salts 2. PFIB: 1,1,3,3,3-Pentafluoro(trifluoromethyl)propene (3828) 3. BZ: 3-Quinuclidinyl benzilate (*) (65812) B. Precursors: 4. Chemicals, except for those listed in Schedule 1, containing a phosphorus atom to which is bonded one methyl, ethyl or propyl (normal or iso) group but not further carbon atoms, e.g. Methylphosphonyl dichloride (6761) Dimethyl methylphosphonate (7566) Exemption: Fonofos: O-Ethyl S-phenyl ethylphosphonothiolothionate (9449) 5. N,N- Dialkyl (Me, Et, n-Pr or i-Pr) phosphoramidic dihalides 6. Dialkyl (Me, Et, n-Pr or i-Pr) N,N-dialkyl (Me, Et, n-Pr or i-Pr)-phosphoramidates 7. Arsenic trichloride (77841) 8. 2,2-Diphenylhydroxyacetic acid (767) 9. Quinuclidinol (16197) 10. N,N-Dialkyl (Me, Et, n-Pr or i-Pr) aminoethylchlorides and corresponding protonated salts 11. N,N-Dialkyl (Me, Et, n-Pr or i-Pr) aminoethaneols and corresponding protonated salts Exemption: N,N-Dimethylaminoethanol and (1080) corresponding protonated salts N,N-Diethylaminoethanol and (1008) corresponding protonated salts 12. N,N-Dialkyl (Me, Et, n-Pr or i-Pr) aminoethane 2-thiols and corresponding protonated salts 13. Thiodiglycol: Bis(2-hydroxyethyl)sulfide (1118) 14. Pinacolyl alcohol: 3,3-Dimethylbutanol (4643) 

 Chemical Weapons Convention 49 SCHEDULE 3 TOXIC CHEMICALS (Chapters 1 and 3) (Chemical Abstract Service registry number) A. Toxic chemicals (not including their precursors): 1. Phosgene: Carbonyl dichloride (755) 2. Cyanogen chloride (5064) 3. Hydrogen cyanide (748) 4. Chloropicrin: Trichloronitromethane (762) B. Precursors: 5. Phosphorus oxychloride (100253) 6. Phosphorus trichloride (77192) 7. Phosphorus pentachloride (100268) 8. Trimethyl phosphite (1219) 9. Triethyl phosphite (1221) 10. Dimethyl phosphite (8689) 11. Diethyl phosphite (7629) 12. Sulfur monochloride (100259) 13. Sulfur dichloride (105450) 14. Thionyl chloride (77197) 15. Ethyldiethanolamine (1397) 16. Methyldiethanolamine (1059) 17. Triethanolamine (1026) 

50 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 641 CHEMICAL WEAPONS CONVENTION 2005 LIST OF AMENDMENTS Amending Law Short title In force from P. U. (A) 115/2021 Chemical Weapons Convention (Amendment of Schedule 1) Order 2021 172021 

51 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 641 CHEMICAL WEAPONS CONVENTIONS 2005 LIST OF SECTIONS AMENDED Section Amending Authority In force from Schedule 1 (8A-8D) P. U. (A) 115/2021 172021