LAWS OF MALAYSIA ONLINE VERSION OF UPDATED TEXT OF REPRINT Act 458 LICENSED LAND SURVEYORS ACT 1958 As at 1 March 2014 

2 LICENSED LAND SURVEYORS ACT 1958 First enacted … … … … … 1958 (Ord. No. 11 of 1958) Revised … … … … … 1991 (Act 458 w.e.f 13 April 1991) Latest amendment made by P.U. (A) 456/2009 which came into operation on … … … 1 January 2010 PREVIOUS REPRINTS First Reprint … … … 2001 Second Reprint … … … 2006 

3 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 458 LICENSED LAND SURVEYORS ACT 1958 ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS Section 1. Short title 2. Interpretation 3. Establishment of the Board 4. Constitution of the Board 5. Chairman and Deputy Chairman of the Board 6. Meetings of the Board, and quorum 7. Power to appoint Secretary, examiners and other officers 8. Register 9. Persons entitled to be registered 10. Licence to practise and renewal of licence 11. General funds of the Board, accounts and expenses 12. Arrangements with reciprocating territories 13. Powers of a licensed land surveyor 14. Deposit of plans 15. Approval of title surveys 16. Correction of errors 17. Disciplinary powers of the Board 18. Appeal to the High Court 19. Illegal practice 20. Existing licensed surveyors 

4 Laws of Malaysia ACT 458 Section 21. Regulations 22. Repeal SCHEDULE 

5 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 458 LICENSED LAND SURVEYORS ACT 1958 An Act relating to the licensing and control of land surveyors and for matters connected therewith. [1 May 1958, L.N. 131/1958] Short title 1. This Act may be cited as the Licensed Land Surveyors Act 1958. Interpretation 2. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires— “Board” means the Land Surveyors Board established under section 3; “boundary mark” means any mark authorized by law for the purpose of marking boundaries; “Director General of Survey” m eans the officer performing the duties of the head of the Sur vey Department of the States of Peninsular Malaysia; “Government surveyor” means any public officer of Malaysia who is authorized by the Director General of Survey to undertake any title survey; “licence to practise” means a li cence to practise as a licensed land surveyor issued under section 10; 

6 Laws of Malaysia ACT 458 “licensed land surveyor” means a person whose name has been placed upon the Register and to whom a licence to practise has been issued by the Board; “member” means a member of the Board; “Minister” means the Minister charged with the responsibility for lands; “reciprocating territory” means any country or territory within the Commonwealth with which arrangements may have be en made by the Board with the approv al o f the Yang di -Pertuan Agong for the recognition of the status of land surveyors; “Register”means the register of licensed land surveyors kept in accordance with section 8; “Secretary”means the person appointed as such under section 7; “survey pla n” means a plan sig ned by a licensed land surveyor recording the work carried out by h im on a title survey, or a plan signed by an officer authorized by the Director General of Survey to do so and recording the work of a Government surveyor; “title surve y” means any sur vey which by any written law is required for the purpose of or in c onnection with the registration of any title to land or any assur ance or instrument affecting or purporting to affect title to l and, and includes in connection therewith— (a) the delimitation of the boundaries of any land whether privately owned or not; (b) the emplacement, replacement and removal of boundary marks; (c) surveys required for the correct inter -relation of boundaries or of boundary marks; and 

Licensed Land Surveyors 7 (d) the making and recording of all measurements and calculations relevant thereto and the drawing and reproduction of plans therefrom. Establishment of the Board 3. (1) There shall be established a board to be called the Land Surveyors Board which shall have an office in Peninsular Malaysia. (2) The Board shall be a body corporate with perpetual succession and shall have a common seal. Constitution of the Board 4. (1) The Board shall consist of— (a) the Director General of Survey; (b) the Deputy Director General of Survey; (c) a Director of Survey, appointed by the Minister; and (d) three licensed land surveyors who are registered under section 9 and resident and practising in the States of Peninsular Malaysia, appointed by the Minister. (2) The members appointed under paragraphs (1 )(c) and (d) shall hold office for three years or for such shorter period as the Minister may specify and shall be eligible for reappointment. Chairman and Deputy Chairman of the Board 5. (1) The Director General of Survey shall be Chairman of the Board and the Deputy Director General of Survey shall be the Deputy Chairman thereof. 

8 Laws of Malaysia ACT 458 (2) The Chairman, if present, or in his absence the Deputy Chairman, shall preside at meetin gs of the Board. In the absence of both the Chairman and the Deputy Chairman t he members present at the meeting of the Boar d shall elect one of themselves to act as Chairman of the meeting. Meetings of the Board, and quorum 6. (1) The Board shall meet at such times and such places as the Chairman may appoint. (2) The quorum at all meet ings of the Board shall be four members present. (3) The member presiding at any meeting of the Board shall have an original vote and also, if up on any question the votes shall be evenly divided, a casting vote. (4) The Board may make rules for the conduct of its business. Power to appoint Secretary, examiners and other officers 7. (1) The Board may appoint a Secretary, examiners and such other officers as from time to time shall appear to be necessary for the discharge of the functions of the Board. (2) The Secretary shall not be a member of the Board and shall not have any vote in its deliberations. Register 8. (1) The Board shall cause a Register to be kept which shall contain the names, addresses and qual ifications of all lic ensed land surveyors, and all such other matt ers as may be prescribed. In the event of the cancellation or suspens ion of any licence to practise, the Board shall cause an entry thereof to be made in the Register. 

Licensed Land Surveyors 9 (2) The Register shall be maint ained and kept by the Secretary at the office of the Board and sha ll be open to inspection by any person on payment of the prescribed fee. (3) The Board shall, before the t hirty-first March in each year, publish in the Gazette a list of the names of all licensed land surveyors and shall within six week s of the issue, cancellation or suspension of any licence to practise pub lish a notice thereof in the Gazette. (4) A copy of any entry in the Regi ster purporting to be certified by the Chairman or Secretary as a true copy, shall in all proceedings whatsoever be prima facie evidence that the person named therein is a licensed land surveyor and possess es the qualifications mentioned therein or that his licence has been cancelled or suspended. (5) The Board shall remove or amend any entry in the Register which is proved to its satisfaction to have been fraudulently procured or made, or to be incorrect. (6) The Secretary shall remove from the Register the name of any person, not being a Govern ment surveyor, whose licence to practise has not been renewed before the first day of February in any year. (7) The Board may, if it thinks f it, restore to the Register any name removed therefrom wit h or without the payment of the prescribed fees. Persons entitled to be registered 9. (1) Subject to this Act every person shall be entitled to have his name placed upon the Register upon making application to the Board and proving to the satisfaction of the Board that— (a) he has attained the age of twenty -one years and is of good character; 

10 Laws of Malaysia ACT 458 (b) (i) he has obtained the prescribed certificate or competency issued by the Board after passing the prescribed examinations; or (ii) he has passed a prof essional examination recognized by the Board as carr ying exemption from the Boar d’s examinations and has passed such further examination and has completed such further period of training in the States of Peni nsular Malaysia or the Republic of Singapore as the Board may prescribe; (c) he has made a declaration in the form and manner prescribed in the Schedule; (d) he has paid the prescribed registration fee; and (e) he has not had his name struck off the register and is not under suspension from practice under section 16 or 17. (2) The name of any Gover nment surveyor who is otherwise eligible for registration under this section may be placed upon the Register without payment of the prescribed registration fee. Licence to practise and renewal of licence 10. (1) The Board shall is sue to each person other than a Government Surveyor, registered in accordance with section 9 upon application by such person in the prescribed form and on payment of the prescribed fee a licence to practis e in the prescribed form, valid for the year of registration: Provided that no such lice nce shall be issued to any such person who is not a citizen without the approval of the Minister. (2) Every such person intendi ng to continue to practise as a licensed land surveyor thereaft er shall apply annually, in the prescribed manner for a licenc e to practise and shall pay the prescribed fee for such licence. 

Licensed Land Surveyors 11 (3) The licence to practise shall subject to the proviso to subsection (1) be issued by the Secretary and shall be in force from the date of issue to the end of the year. An y licence to practise taken out during the month of January shall be deemed to have been in force from the first day of that month. (4) The licence to practise s hall remain the property of the Board and shall be returned to the Board when so required by the Board. General funds of the Board, accounts and expenses 11. (1) All fees and fines payable under this Act and such other sums as may be paid to the Board s hall be credited to the general funds of the Board. (2) There shall be paid fro m the funds of the Board to the members such fe es for attendance and such reasonable tr avelling expenses and subsistence allowan ces as may from time to time be approved by the Minister. (3) All salaries, remunerations , allowances and other expenses incurred by the Board in the dischar ge of its funct ions may be paid out of the general funds of the Board. (4) The accounts of the Board shall be audited annually by an auditor appointed by the Board with the approval of the Minister. The accounts, together with the audit or’s report, shall be submitted to the Minister. Arrangements with reciprocating territories 12. (1) The Board may enter into arrangements with the Surveyors Board or other competent authority of a reciprocating territory for the recognition of the status o f any person authorized by such Board or other authority to practise as a lic ensed land surveyor in such reciprocating territory and may prescribe what additional evidence of character and competency must be produced before such person may be licensed under this Act. 

12 Laws of Malaysia ACT 458 (2) The Boar d may enter into arrangeme nts with the Surveyors Board or other competent authority i n a reciprocating territory for the setting and acceptance of joint papers in professional subjects under the examination rules prescribed by the Board. Powers of a licensed land surveyor 13. (1) Subject to this Act a licensed land surveyor whose name appears on the Register and who has paid the annual licence fee in respect of the current year, sh all be entitled to practise his profession as a land surveyor and shall be authorized to undertake title surveys. (2) Nothing in this Act shall a ffect the right of the Director General of Survey to emplo y Government surveyors, whether licensed land surveyors or not, on any type of title survey whatsoever. (3) Nothing in this Act shall affect the right of any person, not being a licensed land surveyor to und ertake surveys other than title surveys. (4) A licensed land surveyor and his assistants may, for the purpose of carrying out a title survey, at any reasonable time during the hours of daylight enter upon all lands which he is employed to survey, and upon any neighbouring lands and any buildings on such lands and may emplace any boundary mark in or upon such lands and may dig up any ground for the purpose of emplacing such boundary mark and may cut dow n and remove any timber or other growth which may obstruct any survey line or any boundary causing as little damage as possible thereby: Provided that nothing in this sec tion shall exempt such licensed surveyor or his a ssistant from liability for any damag e which he may cause in the exercise of the powers conferred by this subsection. (5) For the purpose of obtaining data for a title survey, the survey plan of which is to be lodged with a Government Survey Department, a licensed land surveyor may at all rea sonable times be permitted to inspect rele vant Survey Department maps and plans and to take copies of such information therefrom as he may require without 

Licensed Land Surveyors 13 payment of sea rch fees, but he may not remove any such maps a nd plans from d epartmental custody and he will be held pecuniarily liable for a ny damage which he may cause to them while they are under his control. Deposit of plans 14. On completion of a title survey, the survey plan of which is to be lodged with th e Government Survey Department, the licensed land surveyor who signs the survey plan thereof shall deposit such plan together with the relevant fiel d books, calculation sheets and survey data with the Survey Department and all such documents shall, if such plan is approved by the Director General of Survey or other officer appointed by him to approve the same on his behalf, become the property of G overnment and shall be filed as permanent survey records. Approval of title surveys 15. No title survey or survey plan thereof shall be accepted or adopted for the purpose of any written law unless it has been approved by the Director Gen eral of Survey or other officer appointed by him to approve survey plans on his behalf. Correction of errors 16. (1) The Director Gene ral of Survey or any Government surveyor so authorized by him may at an y time undertake such field and office checks on the title survey work of a licensed land surveyor as he thinks fit. (2) The Director General of Survey or o ther person authorized by him to approve survey plans, may by notice in writing, instruct any licensed land surveyor to co rrect at his own expense within a time specified in such notice any error made by him: 

14 Laws of Malaysia ACT 458 Provided that such notice is sent not more than twelve mo nths after the date on which the rel evant survey plan was deposited with the Survey Department as provided in section 14. (3) In the event of such lic ensed land surveyor refusing or neglecting within the time specified to correct such error it shall be lawful for the Director Gene ral of Survey to undertake such correction departmentally and to recover the whole cost of such correction from the licensed land surveyor concerned. (4) If such licensed land surveyo r refuses or neglects to refund the cost o f the correction surve y referred to in subsection (3) within fourteen days of the recei pt of the statement of cost the Director General of Survey may report the facts to the Boar d for disciplinary action, and after due enquiry the Board may order such licensed land surveyor to pay the cost of correction of his work or to pay his client such sum by way of compensation as the Board thinks fit; and if such licensed land surveyor refu ses or neglects to comply with such ord er within one month of the date of such decision the Board may, subject to section 18, suspend such licensed land surveyor from pract ice as a licensed land surveyor until the cost of such correction survey has been paid, or for a period not exceeding three years. Disciplinary powers of the Board 17. Where, after due enquiry by the Board, a licensed land surveyor has been found to have been guilty of professional misconduct, or having been convicted of a criminal offence, is found by the Board to be unfit to practise, the Board may— (a) strike off the name of such licensed land surveyor from the Register; (b) suspend such licensed land surveyor from practice as a licensed land surveyor for a period not exceeding three years; (c) impose a fine on such licensed land surveyor not exceeding five hundred ringgit; or 

Licensed Land Surveyors 15 (d) reprimand such licensed land surveyor. Appeal to the High Court 18. Any person aggrieved by a decision of the Board under subsection 16(4) or section 17 may, within one month of the date of such decision, appeal to the High Court against such decision and, on any such appeal, the High Court may give such directions in the matter as it thinks proper, inc luding any directions as to the costs of the appeal and no appeal shall lie from an order of the High Court under this section. Illegal practice 19. Any person who, not being a licensed land surveyor, willfully and falsely pretends, or takes or uses any name or title implying that he is a licensed land surveyo r, or not being a licensed land surveyor or a Government surveyo r, certifies to the ac curacy of any title survey or signs or initial s any survey plan or, not being a person acting under the i mmediate personal direction and supervision of a licensed land surv eyor, carries out or undertakes to carry out any work, in connectio n with a title su rvey, shall be guilty of an offence against this Ac t and shall be liable to a fine not exceeding five hundred ringgit for each offence and to a fu rther penalty of fifty ringgit for each day during the continuance of such offence. Existing licensed surveyors 20. Notwithstanding sections 9 and 10, the name of every person who immediately before the co ming into force of this Act was resident and practising in the St ates of Malaya and was licensed to practise under the Surveyors Ordinance of the Strai ts Settlements [S.S. Cap. 63 ] shall be placed up on the Register without payment of the prescribed registration fee and the Board shall issue to every such person a licence to practise wi thout payment of the prescribed licence fee in respect of the year 1958. 

16 Laws of Malaysia ACT 458 Regulations 21. (1) Subject to this Act the Board may with the approval of the Minister make regulations to prescribe anything which under this Act is required to be prescribed and generally to carry out the objects and purposes of this Act. (2) In particular and without pre judice to the generality of the foregoing, such regulations may— (a) prescribe the conditions under which persons desirous of becoming licensed land surveyors under this Act may so qualify; (b) regulate the practice and conduct of licensed land surveyors; (c) prescribe fees for registration, annual licences, examinations and other purposes under this Act; (d) regulate the disciplinary proceedings of the Board; (e) prescribe forms of application and of the annual licence; and (f) prescribe the for m of the Register and the particulars to be entered therein. Repeal 22. The Surveyors Ordinance is hereby repealed. ______________________________ 

Licensed Land Surveyors 17 SCHEDULE [Paragraph 9(1)(c)] I, A.B., do hereby solemnly and sincerely declare th at I will to t he best of my ability, without partiality or favour, correctly surv ey and delineate the boundaries of any lands I may be instructed to survey , in strict compliance with the regulations and instructions, for the time being in force, of the Boa rd constituted by the Licensed Land Surveyors Act 1958. A.B. Note—The above declaration shall be made in accordance with the Statutory Declarations Act 1960 [Act 13]. ______________________________ 

18 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 458 LICENSED LAND SURVEYORS ACT 1958 LIST OF AMENDMENTS Amending law Short title In force from Act 25/1961 Licensed Land Surveyors 011961 (Amendment) Act 1961 P.U. (B) 324/1970 Notification Under Section 3 011971 P.U. (A) 456/2009 Federal Territory of Labuan 012010 Extension and Modification of Licensed Land Surveyors Act) Order 2009 _________________ 

19 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 458 LICENSED LAND SURVEYORS ACT 1958 LIST OF SECTIONS AMENDED Section Amending authority In force from 2 P.U. (B) 324/1970 011971 4 Act 25/1961 011961 P.U. (B) 324/1970 011971 5 Act 25/1961 011961 P.U. (B) 324/1970 011971 10 Act 25/1961 011961 13 P.U. (B) 324/1970 011971 14 P.U. (B) 324/1970 011971 15 P.U. (B) 324/1970 011971 16 P.U. (B) 324/1970 011971 _________________