Padi Cultivators (Control of Rent and Security of Tenure) 1 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 793 PADI CULTIV ATORS (CONTROL OF RENT AND SECURITY OF TENURE) ACT 1967 (Revised—2017) REVISED BY THE COMMISSIONER OF LAW REVISION, MALAYSIA UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF THE REVISION OF LAWS ACT 1968 2017

2 Laws of Malaysia Publisher’s Copyright C PERCETAKAN NASIONAL MALAYSIA BERHAD All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system or transmitted in any form or by any means electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording and/or otherwise without the prior permission of Percetakan Nasional Malaysia Berhad (Appointed Printer to the Government of Malaysia). PADI CULTIV ATORS (CONTROL OF RENT AND SECURITY OF TENURE) ACT 1967 Revised up to … … … … 2 October 2017 Date of publication in the Gazette of this revised edition … … 16 October 2017 Date appointed for coming into operation of this revised edition pursuant to paragraph 6(1)(xxiii) of the Revision of Laws Act 1968 [ Act 1 ] … … … … 16 October 2017 English text to be authoritative … … P.U. 31 of 1968 First enacted in 1967 as Act of Parliament No. 43 of 1967 PREVIOUS REVISION First Revision … … … 1994 (Act 528 w.e.f. 12 December 1994) Act 793

Padi Cultivators (Control of Rent and Security of Tenure) 3 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 793 PADI CULTIV ATORS (CONTROL OF RENT AND SECURITY OF TENURE) ACT 1967 ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS Section 1. Short title, application and commencement 2. Interpretation 3. Tenancy agreement to be in writing 4. Registration of tenancy agreement 5. Effect of registration 6. Tenancy agreements for less than three seasons prohibited 7. Tenant entitled to renew agreement 8. Tenancy agreement in excess of prescribed area prohibited 9. Implied conditions of a tenancy agreement 10. Right of tenant to continue occupation of land on death or incapacity of landlord 11. Restrictions on amount of rent 12. Declaration of general failure of crop 13. Power of Committee in case of crop failure 14. Appointment and functions of Registrars 15. Appointment and functions of enforcement officers 16. Appointment of Committee or Enquiry Officer 17. Functions of Committee 18. Conduct of enquiry 19. Applications to the Committee 20. Procedure on receipt of application 21. Failure of appearance of parties 22. Substance of evidence and reasons for decision to be recorded 23. Inspection of record of evidence, etc.

4 Laws of Malaysia Act 793 24. Restrictions on right to possession 25. Stay of execution 26. Appeals to Tribunal 27. Procedure for appeal 28. Hearing of appeal 29. Functions of Tribunal 30. Decision of Tribunal final 31. Legal representation 32. Officers, members of Tribunal and Committee deemed to be public servants 33. Offences by landlord 34. Offences for making false statements 35. Offences for charging or giving of premiums 36. Offences for failure to comply with decision or order of Tribunal or Committee, etc. 37. General penalty 38. Attempts and abetment 39. Rules and regulations 40. Effect of Act 41. Repeal 42. Savings and transitional First schedule s econd schedule Section

Padi Cultivators (Control of Rent and Security of Tenure) 5 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 793 PADI CULTIV ATORS (CONTROL OF RENT AND SECURITY OF TENURE) ACT 1967 An Act relating to the control of rent and security of tenure of padi cultivators and incidental matters. [Pahang—3 October 1968, Phg. P .U. 18/1968; Malacca—1 August 1968, M. P .U. 15/1968; Terengganu—1 May 1968, Tr. P .U. 2/1969; Penang—16 July 1969, Pg. P .U. 23/1969; *Perak—1 July 1969, Pk. P .U. 6/1969; Perlis—1 August 1969, Ps. P .U. 10/1969; Kedah—1 January 1970, K. P .U. 3/1970; *Kelantan—1 January 1970, Kn. P .U. 43/1970; *Selangor—1 June 1974, Sl. P .U. 7/1974; Negeri Sembilan—17 February 1995, N.S. P .U. 5/1995 ] WHEREAS it is expedient for the purpose of ensuring uniformity of law and policy to amend and re-enact the law relating to the control of rent and security of tenure of padi cultivators in Peninsular Malaysia: NOW, THEREFORE, pursuant to Clause (4) of Article 76 of the Federal Constitution, IT IS ENACTED by the Parliament of Malaysia as follows: Short title, application and commencement 1. (1) This Act may be cited as the Padi Cultivators (Control of Rent and Security of Tenure) Act 1967. *NOTE—For Perak, applicable in the Districts of Krian and Lower Perak and all areas within the Trans-Perak River Irrigation Areas Stage I and the Trans-Perak River Irrigation Area Stage I Extension. For Kelantan, applicable within the areas declared as the Pasir Mas Irrigation Area, Salor Irrigation Area and the Salor Irrigation Area (Extension). For Selangor, applicable for the whole Districts of Kuala Selangor, Sabak Bernam, Ulu Selangor and Ulu Langat.

6 Laws of Malaysia Act 793 (2) This Act applies only to Peninsular Malaysia. (3) This Act comes into operation on such date as may be appointed by the State Authority by order published in the Gazette and the State Authority may— (a) appoint different dates for the coming into operation of different provisions of this Act; and (b) bring all or any provisions of this Act into operation either in the whole of the State to which the order applies or in such area of the State as may be specified in the order. Interpretation 2. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires— “Chairman” means the Chairman of a Committee appointed under subsection 16(1); “Committee” means a Committee appointed under subsection 16(1); “enforcement officer” means an officer appointed under subsection 15(1) and includes the Chief Enforcement Officer and an assistant enforcement officer; “enquiry” means an enquiry held under this Act; “landlord” means any person who lets land for the cultivation of padi and includes his agent, chargee, assignee or successor in title; “Minister” means the Minister charged with the responsibility for land; “padi land” means land or any portion of land the purpose of which is for the cultivation of padi or on which padi is cultivated excluding any area occupied by a building site and other land;

Padi Cultivators (Control of Rent and Security of Tenure) 7 “prescribed” means prescribed by rules or regulations made under the Act; “Registrar” means a Registrar appointed under subsection 14(1); “season” means the period from the commencement of preparation of land for the planting of padi until the completion of the padi harvest and, where two crops are planted and harvested within the period of twelve months, means the period from the commencement of preparation of land for the planting of the first crop until the completion of the second harvest; “tenancy agreement” means any agreement whereby a landlord agrees to let and a tenant agrees to take any padi land for the purpose of cultivating padi and includes any agreement whereby any person agrees to work on any padi land for payment of a share of the crop or any consideration in lieu of the share of the crop; “tenant” means the tenant of any padi land comprised in a tenancy agreement; “Tribunal” means a Tribunal appointed under section 26. Tenancy agreement to be in writing 3. (1) No person shall enter into a tenancy agreement unless such agreement is in writing and in the form prescribed in Form A of the First Schedule. (2) The signatures of both the landlord and the tenant in a tenancy agreement shall be attested by a Penghulu, a public officer of Division III in the public service and upwards or such persons as the State Authority may appoint for the purpose. Registration of tenancy agreement 4. (1) Every tenancy agreement shall be in triplicate and shall be registered by the landlord within fourteen days of the date of execution thereof with the Registrar but nothing in this subsection shall prevent the tenant from registering such agreement.

8 Laws of Malaysia Act 793 (2) Notwithstanding subsection (1), the Registrar may extend the time for the registration of a tenancy agreement if he is satisfied that the failure to present it for registration within the period prescribed in subsection (1) was not due to any default on the part of the landlord. Effect of registration 5. Registration under this Act shall be notice to all persons including purchasers of the padi land and chargees, assignees and successors in title of the landlord of the incumbrance of the padi land held under the tenancy agreement. Tenancy agreements for less than three seasons prohibited 6. (1) No landlord shall enter into a tenancy agreement for a term of less than three consecutive seasons. (2) Without prejudice to any proceedings which may be taken against the landlord, any agreement for a term of less than three consecutive seasons shall be deemed to be a tenancy agreement for a term of three consecutive seasons and this Act shall apply to such agreement and the parties to the agreement. Tenant entitled to renew agreement 7. (1) Subject to subsection (2), every tenant shall be entitled at his option to a renewal of his tenancy agreement which shall include the season next following the season to which his last-expired tenancy agreement related and if the landlord fails to grant such renewal the tenant may apply to the Committee for an order requiring the landlord to grant a renewal or to execute a new tenancy agreement. (2) An option to renew a tenancy agreement shall be exercised not later than two months before the expiry of the tenancy agreement by the tenant filing a notice with the Registrar in Form B of the First Schedule or in such form as to show an intention to renew the agreement.

Padi Cultivators (Control of Rent and Security of Tenure) 9 Tenancy agreement in excess of prescribed area prohibited 8. (1) No tenant shall enter into any tenancy agreement which entitles him to cultivate padi land exceeding such area as may be prescribed by the State Authority generally or in respect of a defined area within the State. (2) Without prejudice to any proceedings which may be taken against the tenant, any tenancy agreement in respect of an area in excess of that prescribed under subsection (1) shall be void to that extent only. Implied conditions of a tenancy agreement 9. Notwithstanding anything contained in any tenancy agreement, such agreement shall be subject to the following implied conditions: (a) the landlord shall pay any quit rent, rates, charges and other outgoings payable under any written law in respect of the padi land; (b) the tenant shall not assign, sublet, lease or rent the padi land held under such agreement or any part thereof to any other person under any terms, conditions or stipulations for the cultivation of padi land; (c) the tenant shall at all times cultivate the land according to the principles of good husbandry and shall bear all costs of such cultivation; (d) the tenant shall defray all expenses and perform all work necessary for the construction and the putting and keeping in order of any dams, water-wheels, water-courses, division ridges and fences and such other matters as may be prescribed by law to be payable by the occupier of the land; (e) the tenant shall pay the rent due at the place of harvest within two weeks of the completion of the harvest; (f) the tenant shall be entitled to an option to renew the tenancy agreement in accordance with section 7; (g) such other conditions as the State Authority may prescribe. 

10 Laws of Malaysia Act 793 Right of tenant to continue occupation of land on death or incapacity of landlord 10. (1) In the event of the death, incapacity or otherwise of the landlord during the continuance of a tenancy agreement, the tenant may continue occupation of the land until such time as the ownership of the land has been determined or a legal representative in respect of the ownership has been appointed. (2) Any rent or its equivalent in terms of cash at the current value due and payable by the tenant shall be deposited by the tenant with the Registrar until the ownership or legal representative as aforesaid has been determined or appointed when the Registrar shall pay such rent or its equivalent to the new landlord. Restrictions on amount of rent 11. (1) The rent reserved under a tenancy agreement shall be set out in the agreement and expressed to be an amount of padi not exceeding the amount set out in the Second Schedule in respect of the class of land to which the land comprised in the tenancy agreement belongs. (2) Notwithstanding subsection (1), by mutual agreement between the landlord and the tenant after the crop has been harvested, the tenant may commute the rent for a cash payment calculated on the price of padi ruling at the place of harvest at the time when payment is due and on the quantity payable as rent under this section. (3) The State Authority may, with the concurrence of the Minister, by order amend the Second Schedule and prescribe the maximum rent reserved under a tenancy agreement in respect of padi lands in the State or within any defined area of the State. (4) The State Authority may by notification in the Gazette — (a) classify any padi land in the State for the purpose of the Second Schedule; and (b) declare any part of the State or any padi land to be a double cropping area.

Padi Cultivators (Control of Rent and Security of Tenure) 11 (5) Upon a declaration being made under paragraph (4) (b), a further thirty per centum shall be added to the maximum rent reserved as set out in the Second Schedule or as may be prescribed by the State Authority under subsection (3). (6) Any landlord or tenant who is dissatisfied with the classification or declaration affecting a padi land under his tenancy agreement may, within thirty days of the classification or declaration, appeal to the State Authority for a review of such classification or declaration. (7) On review, the State Authority may make such order as may be deemed fit as to the classification of the padi land or the rent reserved in respect of the padi land and such order shall be final. Declaration of general failure of crop 12. In the event of a general failure of the padi crop due to natural disaster within the State, the Menteri Besar or Chief Minister shall on the advice of the State Agricultural Officer declare in the Gazette defining the extent of failure of the crop and boundaries of the affected area and shall state the percentage of the reduction of rent allowed to be paid by the tenant to the landlord. Power of Committee in case of crop failure 13. (1) If any tenant suffers loss by reason of failure of his crop in an area which has not been gazetted under section 12, he may apply to the Committee for a reduction of his rent notwithstanding that his rent may already have become due. (2) The Committee may, if it is satisfied that the failure of the crop was due to some cause beyond the control of the tenant, reduce the rent payable by the tenant to such amount as it considers reasonable in the circumstances or, where the rent is commuted for a cash payment, reduce the amount of the rent or extend the time for payment of the rent, or both reduce the amount of the rent and extend the time for payment.

12 Laws of Malaysia Act 793 (3) Any landlord, whose padi land has been declared an area of crop failure under section 12, and who is not satisfied with the declaration or reduction of rent provided in the declaration may make an application to the Committee for reconsideration and if the Committee is satisfied that the land has not been affected by such crop failure, the Committee may reconsider the amount of rent that should be payable to the landlord. Appointment and functions of Registrars 14. (1) The State Authority may, by notification in the Gazette , appoint one or more Registrars for the purpose of this Act and assign any defined area or areas within which they shall exercise the functions under this Act or regulations made under this Act. (2) The Registrar shall maintain a register in such form and manner as may be prescribed under section 39. (3) The Registrar shall supply a certified copy of the tenancy agreement registered by him— (a) to the Tribunal or Committee if required by the President of the Tribunal or the Chairman; (b) to the landlord or tenant under such agreement on application and on payment of such fee as may be prescribed; or (c) to any party to the proceedings under this Act relating to such tenancy agreement on application and on payment of such fee as may be prescribed. Appointment and functions of enforcement officers 15. (1) The Minister may, by notification in the Gazette , appoint a Chief Enforcement Officer for the State, any number of enforcement officers and such assistant enforcement officers and other officers for the purposes of this Act. (2) An enforcement officer and any other officer appointed under subsection (1) shall have and may exercise and perform the following functions for the purposes of this Act: (a) to enter upon and at all reasonable times have free access to any land in the State, and to make enquiries and to do or cause to be done all things necessary and to investigate cases of non-compliance with this Act;

Padi Cultivators (Control of Rent and Security of Tenure) 13 (b) to prosecute offenders under this Act; (c) to have access to all records in any Land Office or Land Registry or of the Registrar; and (d) to carry out all other powers conferred upon him by this Act and all such powers ancillary or incidental thereto as may be reasonably necessary. (3) The Chief Enforcement Officer shall— (a) be responsible to the Minister for the enforcement and due administration within the State of this Act; and (b) subject to the direction of the Minister, exercise general control and supervision over enforcement officers, assistant enforcement officers and other officers appointed under subsection (1). (4) Every officer appointed under subsection (1) shall carry out and enforce any decision or order made by the Committee or the Tribunal under this Act. (5) Every Penghulu or police officer shall have all the powers of an enforcement officer and in exercising such powers he shall be subject to such directions as may be given or such restrictions as may be imposed by the Minister. Appointment of Committee or Enquiry Officer 16. (1) The State Authority may establish and appoint in and for each State to which this Act applies one or more Committees consisting of three persons, one of whom shall be a public officer who shall be the Chairman, and such officer may be appointed as Chairman of any number of Committees in a State. (2) Where the State Authority considers it desirable so to do, it may instead of establishing and appointing a Committee under subsection (1) appoint an Enquiry Officer who shall have all the functions and may perform all the duties of the Committee or of the Chairman under this Act and for that purpose any reference in this Act to the Committee or Chairman shall be construed as reference to the Enquiry Officer.

14 Laws of Malaysia Act 793 (3) The State Authority shall as sign to the Committee an area or areas in which the Committee shall have jurisdiction to exercise the functions conferred upon it by this Act, and such functions may be exercised by such Committee in respect of any tenancy agreement relating to any padi land within such area or areas but no other. (4) Wherever in this Act the expression “the Committee” is used with reference to any tenancy agreement or to any dispute or application having reference to any tenancy agreement, it shall be construed as referring to the Committee having jurisdiction in the area in which the padi land comprised in such tenancy agreement is situated. Functions of Committee 17. (1) The Committee shall have and may exercise the following functions: (a) to hear and determine applications made under this Act; (b) to hear and determine disputes between landlords and tenants arising out of their tenancy agreement; (c) to conduct enquiries and to administer oaths and affirmations, to examine any witness on oath or affirmation, to summon any person before him, take and record evidence of any such person and to award costs to any person appearing and giving evidence before it; and (d) to make such decisions or orders as may be necessary to give effect to the determination of any application or dispute. (2) Except as provided in subsection (3), a decision or order of the Committee in an enquiry shall not be altered or added to except for the purpose of correcting verbal errors or remedying some accidental defect or omission not affecting a material part of the enquiry. (3) A decision or order of a Committee may be reviewed, varied or set aside by such Committee or a succeeding Committee in the following cases: (a) where the decision or order was made in consequence of fraud, misrepresentation or mistake;

Padi Cultivators (Control of Rent and Security of Tenure) 15 (b) where fresh evidence of a material nature, which could not by the exercise of reasonable diligence have been produced when the decision or order was made, is available; (c) where the decision or order was made in the absence of any necessary or proper party whose absence was not due to any default or neglect on his part; or (d) where, in the opinion of the Committee, substantial injustice has been occasioned by the decision or order. (4) All decisions or orders of the Committee shall be binding on all present and subsequent landlords, tenants and chargees of any padi land in respect of which they are made. (5) For the purpose of exercising the functions under this Act, the Committee or Chairman shall have all the powers of a First Class Magistrate, and may deal with any case of contempt or misbehaviour committed in the view or presence of the Committee or Chairman in accordance with the powers conferred upon such Magistrate. (6) Any decision or order of the Committee shall be treated as if it was a decision or order of such Magistrate. Conduct of enquiry 18. (1) For the purpose of an enquiry under this Act, the Committee may procure and receive all such evidence whether oral or in writing and whether the same be admissible or not under any written law relating to evidence or procedure as it may think necessary or desirable. (2) Every enquiry shall be held at such place and time as the Committee may direct. (3) Every enquiry shall be open to the public unless the Committee for reasons to be recorded directs otherwise. (4) The Committee shall have power to cancel or postpone the holding of any proposed enquiry or adjourn any proceeding or change the venue of any enquiry. 

16 Laws of Malaysia Act 793 Applications to the Committee 19. (1) Every application by a tenant under this Act, and every application by a landlord for an order for the recovery of land comprised in a tenancy agreement, shall be in writing and shall be addressed to the Chairman. (2) Any dispute between a landlord and a tenant arising out of a tenancy agreement between such landlord and tenant may be referred to the Committee by either the landlord or the tenant or by both and shall be in writing and addressed to the Chairman. (3) Every application or reference under subsection (2) shall be accompanied by a copy of the tenancy agreement in respect of which the application or reference arises, and shall contain a brief summary of the grounds of application or reference of the matter in dispute. Procedure on receipt of application 20. (1) On receipt of an application or reference, the Chairman shall within not later than thirty days notify both parties in writing of the time and place at which the application or reference shall be heard. (2) A notice delivered to a party on an application or reference by the hand of some person acting under the authority of the Committee or sent by registered post to the address of a party as stated in the memorandum of the tenancy agreement shall be deemed to have been served upon such party. Failure of appearance of parties 21. (1) If the applicant fails to appear at the time and place specified in the notice issued by the Chairman, the Committee may, if it is satisfied that the notice was delivered or sent by registered post to the applicant’s address, dismiss the application. (2) If the respondent fails to appear at the time and place specified in the notice issued by the Chairman, the Committee may, if it is satisfied that the notice was delivered or sent by registered post to his address, allow the application, or make such order as it thinks fit in the absence of the respondent.

Padi Cultivators (Control of Rent and Security of Tenure) 17 (3) If an applicant or respondent is, from any cause which the Committee cons iders sufficient, unable to attend at the time and place specified in the notice and so informs the Committee in writing or by a representative, the Committee may either— (a) adjourn the hearing to another date; or (b) permit either party to be represented by another person authorized by the absent party in that behalf. Substance of evidence and reasons for decision to be recorded 22. In conducting any enquiry, it shall not be necessary for the Committee— (a) to take down the evidence of any witness verbatim unless it thinks it desirable to do so, or is so requested by that witness or by any other person appearing in the course of the enquiry; and where the evidence is not taken down verbatim, the Committee shall record the substance of such evidence; or (b) to put in writing any decision given or order made, except in a short and concise form, showing the reasons for the decision or order. Inspection of record of evidence, etc. 23. The record of all evidence, whether oral or documentary, taken by the Committee at any enquiry together with its decision or order on the enquiry— (a) shall be made up in a separate file; and (b) shall at all reasonable times, upon a written application in that behalf, be open to inspection by any party in the enquiry or his agent duly authorized in writing, or his legal representative, any of whom may, upon payment of such fee as may be prescribed, obtain a copy of the record of all evidence or an extra ct from the record.

18 Laws of Malaysia Act 793 Restrictions on right to possession 24. (1) No order for the recovery of possession of any land comprised in a tenancy agreement shall be made except in the following cases: (a) upon the expiration of the tenancy agreement; (b) in the event of the death or incapacity or otherwise of the tenant; (c) if the landlord satisfies the Committee that the tenant has been guilty of bad husbandry so as to cause damage to land or to impair its value; (d) if the landlord satisfies the Committee that the tenant has wilfully refused to sign, execute or renew the tenancy agreement under section 7; (e) if the landlord satisfies the Committee that the tenant has contravened or failed to observe any of the implied conditions; and (f) where the landlord desires to cultivate the land himself. (2) In the case of paragraph (1) (b), any person or member of the family of the tenant who is actually cultivating the land may apply to the Committee for an order transferring the tenancy agreement to him; and upon the Committee making such order, the register shall be amended by substituting for the name of the tenant the name of such person or member of the family of the tenant. (3) No order for the recovery of possession of any land comprised in a tenancy agreement shall be made under paragraph (1)(f) unless— (a) the landlord shall have given one year’s notice in writing to the tenant that he requires the land for cultivation by himself; (b) within thirty days from the date of service of the notice under paragraph (a), the landlord makes an application to the Committee for the eviction of the tenant; and (c) the Committee is satisfied having regard to all the circumstances that the amount of land of which the landlord desires to retake possession is reasonable.

Padi Cultivators (Control of Rent and Security of Tenure) 19 (4) If it is shown to the Committee that the landlord who has obtained an order of possession under paragraph (1) (f) is not cultivating the padi land wholly or substantially by his own resources at any time within three years of the date of the order of possession, the Committee may make an order restoring the tenant into possession of the land. (5) In the event of the landlord being granted an order of possession under paragraph (1) (b) or (f), the Committee may award compensation to the tenant for any improvement of a permanent nature which have been made by the tenant during the period of the tenancy and which were agreed to by the landlord. Stay of execution 25. On an appeal being filed against the decision or order of the Committee, on the application of any party to the proceedings, the Committee may stay execution of such decision or order pending the decision of the Tribunal. Appeals to Tribunal 26. An appeal shall lie from any decision or order of the Committee to a Tribunal consisting of three persons appointed by the State Authority, one of whom shall be a public officer possessing professional legal qualifications, who shall be the President of the Tribunal. Procedure for appeal 27. (1) Any person who is dissatisfied with the decision or order of the Committee in a proceeding to which he is a party may appeal to the Tribunal against such decision or order by lodging with the Chairman a notice of appeal in writing in five copies— (a) within fourteen days from the time of such decision or order being made; or (b) within such extended period as the Chairman acting on the direction of the President of the Tribunal may allow.

20 Laws of Malaysia Act 793 (2) The noti ce of appeal shall state the grounds of appeal. (3) Upon receiving a notice of appeal, the Chairman shall send one copy of the notice of appeal to the respondent and three copies to the President of the Tribunal. (4) On payment of such fee as may be prescribed, the Chairman shall supply a certified copy of the notes of evidence made at the hearing of the Committee, the decision or order of the Committee and the reasons for the decision or order— (a) to the party appealing against such decision or order; and (b) to the respondent on his making an application for the notes of evidence, the decision or order and the reasons for the decision or order. Hearing of appeal 28. (1) The President of the Tribunal shall notify the parties of the time and place of hearing of the appeal. (2) The Tribunal shall hear the arguments of the appellant or his representative and may call upon the respondent or his representative to reply to the arguments of the appellant. (3) The Tribunal shall not be required to hear evidence but may in its discretion do so on the application of the appellant or the respondent. (4) If the appellant fails to appear at the time and place specified in the notice issued by the President of the Tribunal, the Tribunal may, if it is satisfied that the notice was delivered or sent by registered post to the appellant’s address, dismiss the appeal. (5) If the respondent fails to appear at the time and place specified in the notice issued by the President of the Tribunal, the Tribunal may, if it is satisfied that the notice was delivered or sent by registered post to his address , allow the appeal or make such order as it thinks fit in the absence of the respondent.

Padi Cultivators (Control of Rent and Security of Tenure) 21 Functions of Tribunal 29. (1) The Tribunal may confirm, alter or reverse the decision or order of the Committee appealed against, and may, if it thinks fit, refer the case back to the Committee for further evidence to be taken and may postpone its decision until such evidence has been taken. (2) The Tribunal may award to either party such costs as it may think fit. (3) The costs which may be awarded by the Tribunal under subsection (2) shall not exceed— (a) one-tenth of the total rent reserved under the tenancy agreement converted into its equivalent in money at the ruling price of padi at the last harvest in the mukim in which the land comprised in the tenancy agreement is situated; or (b) where the rent is expressed as a proportion of the crop, one-tenth of the cash value of the crop yielded at the last harvest by the land comprised in the tenancy agreement, such crop being converted into its equivalent in money as aforesaid. (4) For the purpose of exercising the functions under this Act, the Tribunal or the President of the Tribunal shall have all the powers of a Sessions Court Judge, and may deal with any case of contempt or misbehaviour committed in the view or presence of the Tribunal or the President of the Tribunal in accordance with the powers conferred upon such Sessions Court Judge. (5) Any decision or order of the Tribunal shall be treated as if it was a decision or order of such Sessions Court Judge. Decision of Tribunal final 30. Every decision of the Tribunal shall be final and shall not be called in question or be the subject of any proceedings in any court.

22 Laws of Malaysia Act 793 Legal representation 31. (1) A party may be represented by a legal practitioner in any proceedings before the Tribunal. (2) No legal practitioner or pleader shall be entitled to appear on behalf of any party in any proceedings before the Committee under this Act except with the permission of the Committee and the Committee may grant or withhold such permission as it thinks fit. (3) No solicitors’ costs shall be allowed in respect of any proceedings under this Act before the Committee except that the Committee may, for special reasons stated in the order, allow such costs as might be awarded in the Court of a First Class Magistrate in a comparable proceeding. Officers, members of Tribunal and Committee deemed to be public servants 32. (1) Every officer or member of the Tribunal or Committee appointed under this Act shall be deemed to be a public servant within the meaning of the Penal Code [ Act 574 ]. (2) The Public Authorities Protection Act 1948 [ Act 198 ] shall apply to every such officer or member. Offences by landlord 33. (1) Any landlord who— (a) imposes or receives rent in respect of any padi land under a tenancy agreement exceeding the rate prescribed in the Second Schedule or such maximum rent reserved as may be prescribed by the State Authority under subsection 11(3); (b) imposes or receives cash payment for such rent as may be commuted in accordance with subsection 11(2) exceeding the price of padi ruling at the harvest; (c) receives or demands any rent from a tenant or applies for an order of possession of padi land, the tenancy agreement in respect of which has not been registered in accordance with this Act; 

Padi Cultivators (Control of Rent and Security of Tenure) 23 (d) fails to registe r a tenancy agreement within the period specified in section 4 or within such period as may be extended by the Registrar under that section; (e) without a written order of the Committee, ejects a tenant from any padi land comprised in a tenancy agreement; or (f) receives from a tenant any addition to the rent lawfully payable under this Act by reason of any quit rent, taxes, rates, charges or other outgoings payable under any written law in respect of any padi land under a tenancy agreement or by reason of any expenses incurred in collecting the rent, shall be guilty of an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine of one thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term which may extend to six months or to both. (2) Where a landlord is convicted of an offence under paragraph (1)(a), (b) or (f), the Court shall order the landlord to repay to the tenant the additional amount received by such landlord. Offences for making false statements 34. (1) Any person who knowingly makes any false statement or misrepresents or conceals any fact touching any particulars required to be stated in any proceedings before the Tribunal or Committee or in any matter under this Act shall be guilty of an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine of one thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term which may extend to six months or to both. (2) No prosecution for an offence under subsection (1) shall be instituted without the sanction of the Public Prosecutor. Offences for charging or giving of premiums 35. (1) Any person who— (a) as a condition of the grant by him of any land under a tenancy agreement, requires the payment of any premium or other like sum or the giving of any valuable consideration in addition to rent lawfully payable under the Act;

24 Laws of Malaysia Act 793 (b) receives any such payment as consideration; (c) offers or makes any such payment; or (d) offers or gives any such consideration, shall be guilty of an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine of two thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term which may extend to one year or to both. (2) The Court may, in addition to any penalty imposed, order any person convicted of an offence under subsection (1) to make such repayment or restitution as may be deemed just. Offences for failure to comply with decision or order of Tribunal or Committee, etc. 36. Any person who— (a) fails to vacate a padi land within fourteen days from the date of the service of the order of the Tribunal or Committee directing him to vacate such land; (b) remains on the land after the expiration of the period of such order of the Tribunal or Committee; (c) cultivates or employs any person to cultivate the land after the expiration of such period; or (d) refuses or fails to comply with any decision or order of the Tribunal or Committee, shall be guilty of an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine of two thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term which may extend to one year or to both. General penalty 37. Any person who contravenes any of the provisions of this Act for which no penalty is expressly provided shall be guilty of an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine of one thousand ringgit or to imprisonment which may extend to a term of six months or to both.

Padi Cultivators (Control of Rent and Security of Tenure) 25 Attempts and abetment 38. Any person who attempts to commit any offence punishable under this Act, or abets the commission of the offence, shall be punishable with the punishment provided for the offence. Rules and regulations 39. The State Authority may make rules or regulations for carrying into effect this Act, not inconsistent therewith, and in particular, and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power, for all or any of the following purposes: (a) regulating the procedure of the Tribunal or the Committee; (b) regulating the procedure for endorsing or notating in any issue document of title or any land register or any record of the Land Registry any registration or transaction effected or anything done under this Act; (c) regulating the functions of officers appointed under this Act; (d) prescribing the form of register and such other forms as may be considered necessary for the purposes of this Act; (e) prescribing the remuneration to be paid to members of the Tribunal or Committee; (f) prescribing the conditions upon which, and the authorities by whom, any fees payable under this Act or the rules or regulations made under this Act may be varied or remitted, either in whole or in part; (g) prescribing fees to be paid for any matter or thing required or authorized to be done under this Act. Effect of Act 40. (1) Nothing in this Act shall be deemed to confer upon any person any claim, title, right or interest to or in any land for the purposes of any written law relating to registration of titles.

26 Laws of Malaysia Act 793 (2) Where there is any conflict or inconsistency between this Act and any other written law relating to tenancies or leases, this Act shall prevail. Repeal 41. The Padi Cultivators (Control of Rent and Security of Tenure) Ordinance 1955 [ F .M. 9 of 1955 ] is repealed. Saving and transitional 42. (1) All appointments, rules, regulations and orders made and any registration of tenancy agreements made under and in accordance with the repealed Ordinance and in force at the commencement of this Act shall continue to be in force and have effect as if they have been made under this Act until other appointments and provisions shall be made under this Act. (2) This Act shall apply to any tenancy agreement entered into before the commencement of this Act and still binding upon the parties at the date of such commencement, and in the event of any conflict or inconsistency between this Act and any term, condition or stipulation contained in the tenancy agreement, this Act shall prevail and the tenancy agreement, shall be amended accordingly before being registered in accordance with section 4.

Padi Cultivators (Control of Rent and Security of Tenure) 27 First schedule FORM A [Section 3] The Padi Cultivators (Control of Rent and Security of Tenure) Act 1967 TENANCY AGREEMENT Reg. No. ....................................... Date Deposited ............................. Maximum rent not exceeded ………………………………………. (Signed) …………………………….. Registrar Season …………………………………. District of ……………………………….. AN AGREEMENT made this ………… day of ……….. year………. between …………………………………………………………………….. of ……………... ………………………………………………….. hereinafter called the landlord and …………………………………. of …………………………………..... hereinafter called the tenant. It is agreed as follows: In consideration of the rent specified in the Schedule to this agreement, the landlord lets to the tenant the land described in the Schedule to be held by the tenant for the term of …............ from the …........ day of …...... year …....... This agreement shall be subject to the Padi Cultivators (Control of Rent and Security of Tenure) Act 1967 and the conditions set out below: In witness whereof the parties have hereunto set their hands on this agreement the day and year above written: ............................................. ........................................... (Signature or thumbprint (Signature or thumbprint of landlord) of tenant)

28 Laws of Malaysia Act 793 I hereby testify that the Signature/ Thumbprint above written/affixed in my presence this…........day of ........… year …...... is * (a) to my personal knowledge *(b) according to information given to me by trustworthy and respectable persons viz …........ which information I verily believe, the true Signature/ Thumbprint of …..................who has acknowledged to me ….......................... ....... that he is of full age and that he has voluntarily executed this instrument. I hereby testify that the Signature/ Thumbprint above written/affixed in my presence this…...... day of …........ year …......... is * (a) to my personal knowledge *(b) according to information given to me by trustworthy and respectable persons viz …........ which information I verily believe, the true Signature/ Thumbprint of …............who has acknowledged to me …................. that he is of full age and that he has voluntarily executed this instrument. Witness my hand …....................... Witness my hand …........................ schedule Mukim Title No. or Deed No. Lot No. Area of padi land comprised Class of Land Rent ………………………………………………………………... ………………………………………………………………... ………………………………………………………………... gantang per acre gantang per acre gantang per acre *Delete where inappropriate.

Padi Cultivators (Control of Rent and Security of Tenure) 29 FORM B [Section 7] The Padi Cultivators (Control of Rent and Security of Tenure) Act 1967 NOTICE BY TENANT TO LANDLORD TO EXERCISE OPTION TO RENEW TENANCY AGREEMENT N O….......... I, the undersigned, hereby give notice that I intend on the determination of the tenancy agreement made on the …............... day of ….................. year …..., between myself of the one part and the landlord mentioned in the agreement of the other part to renew such tenancy agreement on the terms and conditions as set out in the agreement. Dated …............................ Filed in this Registry on …………… ……………….. day of ……………… (Signed) …........…………………… Registrar ………………………………… Signature of tenant second schedule [Section 11] Classification of land Rent in gantangs per acre Class I …………………………… 140 Class II …………………………… 115 Class III …………………………… 70

30 Laws of Malaysia Act 793 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 793 PADI CULTIV ATORS (CONTROL OF RENT AND SECURITY OF TENURE) ACT 1967 (Revised—2017) Particulars under paragraphs 7(ii) and (iii) of the Revision of Laws Act 1968 [Act 1 ] LIST OF AMENDMENTS Amending law Short title In force from -NIL- LIST OF LAWS OR PARTS THEREOF SUPERSEDED No. Title Act 528 Padi Cultivators (Control of Rent and Security of Tenure) Act 1967 

Padi Cultivators (Control of Rent and Security of Tenure) 31 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 793 PADI CULTIV ATORS (CONTROL OF RENT AND SECURITY OF TENURE) ACT 1967 (Revised—2017) LIST OF SECTIONS AMENDED Section Amending authority In force from -NIL-

32 Laws of Malaysia Act 793 LAWS OF MA LAYSIA Act 793 PADI CULTIV ATORS (CONTROL OF RENT AND SECURITY OF TENURE) AC T 1967 (Revised—2017) LIST OF AMENDMENTS MADE BY THE COMMISSIONER OF LAW REVISION UNDER SECTION 6 OF THE REVISION OF LAWS ACT 1968 [ACT 1] Provision Particulars of amendments Authority for amendment Table of contents Table of contents altered paragraph 6(1)(vii) Long title 1. Word “incidental” inserted before the word “matters” paragraph 6(1)(vi) 2. Words “incidental thereto” omitted paragraphs 6(1)(vi) and (xxi) Throughout the Act 1. Words “enforcement officer” substituted for “Enforcement Officer” paragraphs 6(1)(xxiv) 2. Words “assistant enforcement officer” substitute for “Assistant Enforcement Officer” paragraphs 6(1)(xxiv) Effective date 1. Semicolon inserted after the words “ Sl. P .U. 7/1974 ” paragraph 6(1)(xvi) 2. Effective date for Negeri Sembilan inserted after the effective date for Selangor paragraph 6(1)(xxiv) 3. Note inserted paragraph 6(1)(vii) Enacting clause Words “NOW, THEREFORE, pursuant to Clause (4) of Article 76 of the Federal Constitution, IT IS ENACTED by the Parliament of Malaysia as follows:” substituted for “NOW THEREFORE, pursuant to the provision of Clause (4) of Article 76 of the Constitution BE IT paragraph 6(1)(iii) 

Padi Cultivators (Control of Rent and Security of Tenure) 33 Provision Particulars of amendments Authority for amendment ENACTED by the Seri Paduka Baginda Yang di-Pertuan Agong with the advice and consent of the Dewan Negara and Dewan Rakyat in Parliament assembled, and by the authority of the same, as follows:” section 1 In the shoulder note, words “ application and commencement ” substituted for “ commencement and application ” paragraphs 6(1)(iii) and (xxiv) subsection 1(1) Divided into subsections 1(1) and (2) with consequential alterations made paragraphs 6(1)(xii), (xiii) and (xxiv) subsection 1(2) Renumbered and divided into paragraphs 1(3) (a) and (b) with consequential alterations made paragraphs 6(1)(xii), (xiii) and (xxiv) section 2 1. In the definition of “enquiry”, words “any provisions of” omitted paragraph 6(1)(xxi) 2. In the definition of “landlord”, word “assignee” substituted for “assign” paragraph 6(1)(iii) 3. In the definition of “Minister”, words “for the time being” and “and cooperative development” omitted paragraph 6(1)(xxi) 4. In the definition of “Registrar”, words “subsection 14(1)” substituted for “section 14” paragraph 6(1)(xix) 5. In the definition of “season”— a. word “period” after the words “within the” substituted for “space” paragraphs 6(1)(xxiv) b. comma inserted after the words “twelve months” paragraph 6(1)(xvi) 6. In the definition of “tenancy agreement”, words “of the share of the crop” substituted for “thereof” paragraphs 6(1)(xxi) and (xxiv)

34 Laws of Malaysia Act 793 Provision Particulars of amendments Authority for amendment subsection 4(1) – (proviso) Proviso rearranged and transposed after the words “the Registrar” with consequential alterations made paragraphs 6(1)(xiii) and (xxiv) section 5 Word “assignees” substituted for “assigns” paragraph 6(1)(iii) subsection 6(2) Words “to the agreement” substituted for “thereto” paragraph 6(1)(xxi) subsection 8(2) Words “null and” omitted paragraph 6(1)(xxi) section 9 Comma inserted after the words “any tenancy agreement” paragraph 6(1)(xvi) paragraph 9 (c) Word “said” before the word “land” omitted paragraph 6(1)(xxi) paragraph 9 (g) Words “from time to time” after the words “may prescribe” omitted paragraph 6(1)(xxi) subsection 10(1) 1. Comma inserted after the words “tenancy agreement” paragraph 6(1)(xvi) 2. Words “of the ownership” substituted for “thereof” paragraph 6(1)(xxi) subsection 11(1) Full stop substituted for colon after the word “belongs” paragraph 6(1)(xvi) subsection 11(1) – (proviso) Renumbered as subsection 11(2) with consequential alterations made paragraphs 6(1)(xii) and (xxiv) subsection 11(2) 1. Renumbered as subsection 11(3) paragraph 6(1)(xii) 2 . Words “of the State” substituted for “thereof” paragraph 6(1)(xxi) subsection 11(3) Renumbered as subsection 11(4) paragraph 6(1)(xii) subsection 11(4) 1. Renumbered as subsection 11(5) paragraph 6(1)(xii) 2. Words “paragraph (4) (b) ,” substituted for “paragraph (3)(b)” paragraphs 6(1)(xvi), (xix) and (xxiv) 3. Words “subsection (3)” substituted for “subsection (2)” paragraph 6(1)(xix) and (xxiv) 4. Word “thirty” substituted for “30” paragraph 6(1)(iii) 

Padi Cultivators (Control of Rent and Security of Tenure) 35 Provision Particulars of amendments Authority for amendment subsection 11(5) 1. Renumbered as subsection 11(6) paragraph 6(1)(xii) 2. Word “thirty” substituted for “30” paragraph 6(1)(iii) subsection 11(6) 1. Renumbered as subsection 11(7) paragraph 6(1)(xii) 2. Comma inserted after the word “review” paragraph 6(1)(xvi) 3. Words “of the padi land” substituted for “thereof” paragraph 6(1)(xxi) section 12 Comma inserted after the words “the State” paragraph 6(1)(xvi) subsection 13(1) Divided into subsections 13(1) and (2) with consequential alterations made paragraphs 6(1)(xii), (xiii) and (xxiv) subsection 13(2) 1. Renumbered as subsection 13(3) paragraph 6(1)(xii) 2. Words “the Committee” substituted for “it” paragraph 6(1)(xxi) subsection 14(1) Words “under this Act” substituted for “thereunder” paragraph 6(1)(xxi) subsection 14(2) Words “in such” before the word “manner” omitted paragraph 6(1)(xxi) paragraph 14(3)(b) Word “or” inserted at the end of paragraph paragraph 6(1)(xxiv) paragraph 15(2)(c) 1 . Words “land Office” substituted for “land office” paragraph 6(1)(xxiv) 2. Words “Land Registry substituted for “land registry” paragraph 6(1)(xxiv) paragraph 15(3)(b) Comma inserted after the word “Minister” paragraph 6(1)(xvi) subsection 15(5) Words “police officer” substituted for “Police Officer” paragraph 6(1)(xxiv) subsection 16(1) Words “may be appointed as” substituted for “may be appointed the” paragraph 6(1)(xv)

36 Laws of Malaysia Act 793 Provision Particulars of amendments Authority for amendment subsection 16(4) Words “or areas” omitted paragraph 6(1)(xxi) subsection 18(1) 1. Words “for the time being in force” after the words “any written law” omitted paragraph 6(1)(xxi) 2. Comma after the word “procedure” omitted paragraph 6(1)(xvi) subsection 19(2) Words “such landlord and such tenant” omitted paragraph 6(1)(xxi) subsection 21(2) 1. Words “at the time and place specified in the notice issued by the Chairman” substituted for “as aforesaid” paragraph 6(1)(xxi) 2. Comma inserted after the word “Chairman” paragraph 6(1)(xvi) subsection 21(3) Comma inserted after the word “representative” paragraph 6(1)(xvi) section 22 Comma inserted after the words “any enquiry” paragraph 6(1)(xvi) paragraph 22 (a) Semicolon substituted for colon after the words “the enquiry” paragraph 6(1)(xvi) paragraph 22 (a) – (proviso) Proviso rearranged and transposed after the words “of the enquiry” with consequential alterations made paragraphs 6(1)(xiii) and (xxiv) paragraph 22 (b) Words “the decision or order” substituted for “arriving thereat” paragraph 6(1)(xxi) section 23 Words “on the enquiry” substituted for “thereon” paragraph 6(1)(xxi) 1. Words “of the record of all evidence” substituted for “thereof” paragraph 6(1)(xxi) 2. Words “from the record” substituted for “therefrom” paragraph 6(1)(xxi) paragraph 23 (b) 1. Words “of the record of all evidence” substituted for “thereof” paragraph 6(1)(xxi) 2. Words “from the record” substituted for “therefrom” paragraph 6(1)(xxi)

Padi Cultivators (Control of Rent and Security of Tenure) 37 Provision Particulars of amendments Authority for amendment paragraph 24(1)(b) Semicolon substituted for colon after the words “the tenant” paragraph 6(1)(xvi) paragraph 24(1)(b) -(proviso) Rearranged and ren umbered as subsection 24(2) with consequential alteratio ns made paragraphs 6(1)(xii), (xiii) and (xxiv) paragraph 24(1) (f) -(proviso) Rearranged and renumbered as paragraphs 24(3) (a) to (c) with consequential alterations made paragraphs 6(1)(xii), (xiii) and (xxiv) subsection 24(2) Renumbered as subsection 24(4) paragraph 6(1)(xii) subsection 24(3) 1. Renumbered as subsection 24(5) paragraph 6(1)(xii) 2. Word “ (f) ” substit uted for “(g)” paragraph 6(1)(xix) 3. Comma inserted after the words “or (f)” paragraph 6(1)(xvi) subsection 27(1) Words “five copies” substituted for “quintuplicate” paragraph 6(1)(xxi) subsection 27(3) 1. Comma inserted after the words “a notice of appeal” paragraph 6(1)(xvi) 2. Words “of the notice of appeal” substituted for “thereof” paragraph 6(1)(xxi) subsection 27(4) 1. Comma inser ted after the word “prescribed” paragraph 6(1)(xvi) 2. Words “for the decision or order” substituted for “therefor” paragraph 6(1)(xxi) paragraph 27(4)(b) Words “for the notes of evidence, the decision or order and the reasons for the decision or order” substituted for “therefor” paragraph 6(1)(xxi) subsection 28(2) Divided into subsections 28(2) and (3) with consequential alterations made paragraphs 6(1)(xii), (xiii) and (xxiv) subsection 28(3) Renumbered as subsection 28(4) paragraph 6(1)(xii) subsection 28(4) 1. Renumbered as subsection 28(5) paragraph 6(1)(xii)

38 Laws of Malaysia Act 793 Provision Particulars of amendments Authority for amendment 2. Words “at the time and place specified in the notice issued by the President of the Tribunal” substituted for “as aforesaid” paragraph 6(1)(xxi) subsection 29(2) – (proviso) Renumbered and divided into paragraphs 29(3) (a) and (b) with consequential alterations made paragraphs 6(1)(xii), (xiii) and (xxiv) subsection 29(3) Renumbered as subsection 29(4) paragraph 6(1)(xii) subsection 29(4) Renumbered as subsection 29(5) paragraph 6(1)(xii) subsection 32(2) Comma after the words “[ Act 198]” omitted paragraph 6(1)(xvi) subsection 33(1) 1. In paragraph (a) , words “subsection 11(3)” substituted for “subsection 11(2)” paragraph 6(1)(xix) 2. In paragraph (b) , words “subsection 11(2)” substituted for “subsection 11(1)” paragraph 6(1)(xix) 3. In paragraph (e), comma inserted after the word “Committee” paragraph 6(1)(xvi) 4. Commas inserted after the words “and shall” and “on conviction” respectively paragraph 6(1)(xvi) subsection 34(1) Commas inserted after the words “and shall” and “on conviction” respectively paragraph 6(1)(xvi) subsection 34(2) Words “No prosecution” and “shall be instituted” substituted for “A prosecution” and “shall not be instituted” respectively paragraph 6(1)(iii) subsection 35(2) Commas inserted after the words “and shall” and “on conviction” respectively paragraph 6(1)(xvi) section 36 Commas inserted after the words “and shall” and “on conviction” respectively paragraph 6(1)(xvi) section 37 1. Words “or fails to comply with” omitted paragraph 6(1)(xxi)

Padi Cultivators (Control of Rent and Security of Tenure) 39 Provision Particulars of amendments Authority for amendment 2. Commas inserted after the words “and shall” and “on conviction” respectively paragraph 6(1)(xvi) section 38 1. Words “Any person who” substituted for “Whoever” paragraph 6(1)(iii) 2. Words “the offence” and “shall be punishable” substituted for “such an offence” and “shall be punished” respectively paragraph 6(1)(xxi) paragraph 39 (f) Words “under this Act” substituted for “thereunder” paragraph 6(1)(xxi) section 41 1. In the shoulder note, words “and Saving ” omitted paragraph 6(1)(xxiv) 2. Comma after the words “[F .M. 9 of 1955 ]” omitted paragraph 6(1)(xvi) 3. Word “hereby” omitted paragraph 6(1)(xxi) 4. Full stop substituted for colon after the word “repealed” paragraph 6(1)(xvi) section 41 – (proviso) Transposed and renumbered as subsection 42(1) with consequential alterations made paragraphs 6(1)(xiii), (xxi) and (xxiv) section 42 In the shoulder note, words “Saving and transitional ” substituted for “ Transitional provisions ” paragraph 6(1)(iii) subsection 42(1) 1. Renumbered as subsection 42(2) paragraph 6(1)(xii) 2. Comma inserted after the words “in the tenancy agreement” paragraph 6(1)(xvi) subsection 42(2) Omitted paragraph 6(1)(xxb) First Schedule (Form A) 1. Word “hereby” omitted paragraph 6(1)(xxi) 2. Words “to this agreement” substituted for “hereto” paragraph 6(1)(xxi)

40 Laws of Malaysia Act 793 Provision Particulars of amendments Authority for amendment 3. Words “on this agreement” inserted after the words “In witness whereof the parties have hereunto set their hands” paragraph 6(1)(xxi) 4 . Words “( Signature or thumbprint of landlord)” substituted for “(Signature or thumbprint of Landlord )” paragraph 6(1)(xxi) 5 . Words “( Signature of thumbprint of tenant)” substituted for “(Signature or tumbprint of Tenant )” paragraph 6(1)(xxi) 6. Word “to” inserted after the words “according to information given” wherever they appear paragraph 6(1)(xv) First Schedule (Form B) 1. Word “year” substituted for “20” paragraph 6(1)(iii) 2. Words “in the agreement” substituted for “therein” wherever they appear paragraph 6(1)(xxi) 3. Words “Dated.............” substituted for “Dated ....... day of .................... 20.......” paragraph 6(1)(xxiv) 4. Words “Signature of tenant” substituted for “Signature of Tenant” paragraph 6(1)(xxiv)