Communications and Multimedia LAWS OF MALAYSIA RepRint Act 588 c OMMun Ic At IOn S And Mu Lt IMed IA Act 1998 Incorporating all amendments up to 1 January 2006 published by the CommissioneR of law Revision, malaysia undeR the authoRity of the Revision of laws aCt 968 in CollaboRation with peRCetakan nasional malaysia bhd 2006

 c OMMun Ic At IOn S And Mu Lt IMed IA Act 1998 d ate of Royal a ssent ... … … … ...  3 s eptember 998 d ate of publication in the Gazette … …  5 o ctober 998 Previous r e Print First Reprint ... ... ... ... ... 2002

3 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 588 c OMMun Ic At IOn S A nd M u Lt IMed IA Act 1998 ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS PART I PRELIMINARY s ection  . s hort title  . Commencement 3. o bjects 4. t erritorial and extra-territorial application 5. p ower of the m inister to exclude certain persons, geographical areas, etc. 6. i nterpretation PART II ministe Rial powe Rs and pRo Cedu Res Chapter  Ministerial Direction 7. d irection by the m inister 8. v ariation of a direction 9. Register of directions Chapter  Ministerial Determination  0. d etermination by the m inister

4 Laws of Malaysia Act 588  . v ariation of a de termination  . Register of determinations Chapter 3 Ministerial Declaration  3. d eclaration by the m inister  4. m odification, variation or revocation of a declaration  5. Register of declarations Chapter 4 Ministerial Regulations  6. m inister’s power to make regulations PART iii appeal t Ribunal  7. e stablishment of the a ppeal t ribunal  8. m atters which the a ppeal t ribunal may review  9. Qualifications of members  0. Resignation and termination of an appointment  . v acation of office and acting appointments  . Quorum for the a ppeal t ribunal  3. d ecision 23A. e nforcement of decision of a ppeal t ribunal  4. a ppeal t ribunal procedures 24A. p owers of a ppeal t ribunal  5. s uspension of member  6. d isclosure of interest 26A. s ecretary of a ppeal t ribunal and other officers 26b . o bligation of secrecy 26C. p ublic servants and public offic ers 26d . a pplication of public a uthorities protection a ct 948 26E. a ct or omission done in good faith s ection

5Communications and Multimedia PART iv li Cen Ces Chapter  Individual Licence s ection  7. a pplication for an individual licence  8. f urther information  9. Recommendation by the Commission 30. Grant of an individual licence 3. Restriction on the grant of an individual licence 3. Compliance with the conditions of an individual licence 33. m odification, variation or revocation of individual licence conditions 34. Renewal of an individual licence 35. s urrender of an individual licence 36. t ransfer of an individual licence or change of ownership 37. Recommendation for the suspension or cancellation of an individual licence 38. s uspension or cancellation of an individual licence by the m inister 39. e ffective date of suspension or cancellation of an individual licence 40. p ublication on suspension or cancellation of an individual licence 4. e ffect of suspension, cancellation, surrender or expiry of an individual licence 4. Register of individual licences 43. Rights and obligations attached to an individual licence Chapter  Class Licence 44. m inister may grant class licence 45. a pplication for registration 46. Requirement for registration 47. Recommendation by the Commission 48. Cancellation of registration by the m inister 49. Register of class licences 50. Register of registration notices

6 Laws of Malaysia Act 588 PART v powe Rs and pRo Cedu Res of the malaysian Communi Cations and multimedia C ommission Chapter  Directions s ection 5. d irections by the Commission 5. m odification, variation or revocation of a direction by the Commission 53. o ffence for non-compliance with a direction of the Commission 54. Register of directions Chapter  Determination 55. d etermination by the Commission 56. m odification, variation or revocation of a determination by the Commission 57. Register of determinations Chapter 3 Inquiry 58. i nquiry by the Commission 59. Combining two or more inquiries 60. Conduct of an inquiry 6. i nquiry shall be public 6. e xceptions to a public inquiry 63. Confidential material not to be disclosed 64. d irections about an inquiry 65. Report on an inquiry 66. p rotection from civil action 67. Register of reports 

7Communications and Multimedia Chapter 4 Investigation for Purposes of Administration, Inquiry, etc. s ection 68. i nvestigation by the Commission 69. Complaints to the Commission 70. Conduct of investigation 7. Report on investigation 7. p ublication of reports Chapter 5 Information-gathering Powers 73. p rovision of information 74. o ffence for non-compliance 75. o ffence for giving false or misleading information, evidence or document, etc. 76. p roof of compliance 77. Commission may retain documents 78. i ncorrect record 79. Record of information 80. p ublication of information Chapter 6 Register 8. Register of all matters Chapter 7 Notification and Resolution of Disputes 8. d isputes 83. n otification of a dispute 84. Commission to act only upon notification 85. Commission may publish guidelines 86. Commission to decide notified dispute

8 Laws of Malaysia Act 588 87. d ecision to be in writing 88. Register of decisions 89. e nforcement Chapter 8 Registration of Agreements 90. a pplication for the registration of agreements 9. w hen the Commission shall register the agreement 9. e ffect of registration 93. Content of the register of agreements Chapter 9 Voluntary Industry Codes 94. i ndustry forum 95. Code by the industry forum 96. Commission may determine a voluntary industry code 97. a pplicable voluntary industry code 98. Compliance with a registered voluntary industry code a legal defence 99. d irections to comply with a registered voluntary industry code  00. Civil penalty for non-compliance  0. Revocation of a code  0. s ubmission of new voluntary industry code by an industry forum  03. Register of current voluntary industry code Chapter 0 Mandatory Standards  04. d etermination of a mandatory standard  05. m andatory standard to be consistent  06. m odification, variation or revocation of a mandatory standard  07. m andatory standard to take precedence  08. Compliance with a mandatory standard a legal defence  09. Civil penalty for non-compliance s ection

9Communications and Multimedia Chapter  Undertakings s ection  0. u ndertaking by a person  . Registration of an undertaking  . Rules regarding undertakings  3. w ithdrawal of an undertaking  4. Replacement of an undertaking  5. Register of undertakings  6. e nforcement of an undertaking Chapter  Regulatory Forbearance  7. Regulatory forbearance  8. d etermination by the m inister Chapter 3 Review of Decisions  9. Review by the Commission  0. Review by the a ppeal t ribunal  . Judicial review Chapter 4 Regulatory Review  . Review of subsidiary legislation by the Commission Chapter 5 Monitoring and Reporting  3. Report to the m inister on industry performance  4. m atters to monitor and report  5. Report to be published

0 Laws of Malaysia Act 588 PART vi e Conomi C R e Gulation Chapter  Licensing s ection  6. l icensing of network facilities, network services and applications services  7. Compliance with licence conditions  8. d efinition of network boundary  9. e xemption for applications service provider not subject to a class licence  30. n ominated facilities provider  3. p roviders under a class licence shall register  3. s eparate licence Chapter  General Competition Practices  33. p rohibition on anticompetitive conduct  34. Commission may publish guidelines  35. p rohibition on entering into collusive agreements  36. p rohibition on tying or linking arrangements  37. d etermination of dominant licensee  38. Guidelines as to the meaning of “dominant position”  39. Commission may direct a licensee in a dominant position  40. a uthorization of a conduct  4. Register of authorizations  4. Remedies for non-compliance  43. p enalty for offence  44. m inister may make rules Chapter 3 Access to Services  45. f acilities and services which may be included in the access list

Communications and Multimedia  46. d etermination of facilities and services by the Commission  47. Recommendation by access forum  48. Register of access list  49. s tandard access obligations for facilities and services  50. Registration of access agreements  5. n otification of access disputes  5. a ccess forum  53. a ccess code  54. Registration of the access code  55. i ndustry access undertakings  56. Registration of an undertaking PART vii te Chni Cal R e Gulation Chapter  Spectrum Assignment  57. p rohibition on using spectrum without assignment  58. p ower of the m inister to make regulations  59. i ssue of spectrum assignment  60. s pectrum assignment to comply with spectrum plan  6. Reissue of spectrum assignment  6. t hird party transfers  63. t ransfer rules  64. i ssue of apparatus assignment  65. a pparatus assignment to comply with spectrum plan  66. s ituation where apparatus assignment shall not be issued  67. t hird party authorization  68. m aximum term for an apparatus assignment  69. Class assignment  70. Class assignment to comply with spectrum plan  7. s ituation where class assignment shall not be issued  7. s pectrum plan s ection

 Laws of Malaysia Act 588  73. Contents of spectrum plan  74. p referential rights  75. d ispute about interference  76. m inister may determine spectrum for spectrum assignment  77. spectrum plan to include procedures for spectrum assignment and apparatus assignment  78. Compulsory acquisition of assignments in determined spectrum Chapter  Numbering and Electronic Addressing  79. Control, planning and administration of numbering and electronic addressing  80. n umbering and electronic addressing plan  8. m anagement or maintenance of an integrated public number or electronic address database Chapter 3 Technical Standards  8. h indering interoperability an offence  83. Compromising public safety an offence  84. t echnical standards forum  85. m atters for technical code  86. Certifying agencies PART viii Consume R pRote Ction Chapter  Quality of Service  87. e xemption from offence provisions  88. p rovision of netw ork service or applications service s ection

3Communications and Multimedia  89. Consumer fo rum  90. m atters for consumer code  9. p ublication of consumer code Chapter  Required Applications Services  9. Required applications services  93. m inister’s direction to provide required applications services  94. d irection may specify operational details Chapter 3 Resolution of Consumer Disputes  95. d isputes between consumers and licensees  96. p rocedures for consumer complaints Chapter 4 Rate Regulation  97. Rate setting by providers  98. p rinciples on rate setting  99. Rate setting by the m inister  00. p ower of the m inister to determine persons or areas for special rates  0. Rules regarding rates Chapter 5 Universal Service Provision  0. s ystem of universal service provision  03. d efinition of “underserved areas” and “underserved groups within the community”, etc.  04. u niversal s ervice provision f und s ection

4 Laws of Malaysia Act 588 PART iX so Cial R e Gulation Chapter  Licensing s ection  05. p rohibition on the provision of con tent applications service  06. Compliance with licence conditions  07. Closed content applications service  08. e xemptions for incidental content  09. l imited content applications service  0. o pinion on category of service Chapter  Content Requirements  . p rohibition on provision of offensive content  . Content forum  3. Content code PART X Gene Ral Chapter  Installation of Network Facilities, Access to Network Facilities, etc.  4. i nspection of land  5. i nstallation of network facilities  6. m inimal damage  7. n etwork facilities provider to restore land  8. m anagement of activity  9. a greement with public utility  0. Conditions to which a network facilities installation permit is subject  . n otice to owner of land  . n otice to owner of land for lopping of trees, etc.  3. n otice to road authority, public utility, etc.

5Communications and Multimedia  4. Road, etc., to remain open for passage  5. n etwork facilities installation permit  6. Criteria for issue of network facilities installation permit  7. n etwork facilities installation permit has effect subject to this a ct and other laws  8. a ccess to post, network facilities or right-of-way  9. Commission to regulate matters on access to post, etc.  30. m inister may make regulations Chapter  Additional Offences and Penalties  3. o ffence if use apparatus or device without authority  3. f raudulent use of network facilities, network services, etc.  33. i mproper use of network facilities or network service, etc.  34. i nterception and disclosure of communications prohibited  35. d amage to network facilities, etc.  36. f raud and related activity in connection with access devices, etc.  37. p rohibition on call back service  38. e mission from non-standard equipment or device  39. u nlawful use, possession or supply of non-standard equipment or device  40. o ffence for distributing or advertising any communications equipment or device for interception of communication  4. o ffence for giving false and misleading statement  4. General offence and penalty  43. Compounding of offences  44. o ffences by body corporate Chapter 3 Powers of Entry, Investigation into Offences and Prosecution  45. a uthorized officer  46. p ower to investigate  47. s earch by warrant s ection

6 Laws of Malaysia Act 588  48. s earch and seizure without warrant  49. a ccess to computerized data  50. l ist of things seized  5. Release of things seized  5. p ower to intercept communications  53. o bstruction to search  54. a dditional powers  55. p ower to require attendance of person acquainted with case  56. e xamination of person acquainted with case  57. a dmissibility of statements in evidence  58. a uthorized officer to complete investigation and hand over to police  59. p rosecution  60. f orfeiture  6. Jurisdiction to try offences  6. Rewards Chapter 4 National Interest Matters  63. General duty of licensees  64. p ersons not liable for act done in good faith  65. n etwork interception capability  66. s pecial powers in emergency  67. d isaster plan Chapter 5 Miscellaneous  68. m inister may make rules on record-keeping  69. i nterworking with other authorities  70. i nstruments granted under this a ct  7. t his a ct prevails over other a cts  7. p rotection of officers and other persons s ection

7Communications and Multimedia PART X i t Ransitional pRovisions Chapter  Repeal and Savings s ection  73. Repeal  74. d issolution of the t elecommunications f und  75. s avings Chapter  Transitional Provisions for Licences  76. o ld licences to have effect  77. n ew class licences to supersede old licences  78. o ld licences shall be registered  79. a registered licence shall confer no new benefit  80. o ld licensees shall indicate intention  8. Registered licensee may apply for an individual licence under this a ct  8. d etermination of listed facilities and services SCh Edu LE

8 Laws of Malaysia Act 588

9Communications and Multimedia LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 588 c OMMun Ic At IOn S A nd M u Lt IMed IA Act 1998 a n a ct to provide for and to regulate the converging communications and multimedia industries, and for incidental matters. [1 April 1999, P.U. (B) 128/1999— except ss. 157, 159-162, 164-171, 176, 178, 197 & 198; 1 April 2000, P.U. (B) 106/2000—ss. 157, 159-162, 164-171, 176 & 178] Be I t en Acted by the s eri paduka b aginda y ang di- pertuan a gong with the advice and consent of the d ewan n egara and d ewan Rakyat in parliament assembled, and by the authority of the same as follows: PART i pRelimina Ry Short title 1. t his a ct may be cited as the Communications and m ultimedia a ct 998. c ommencement 2. t his a ct comes into operation on a date to be appointed by the m inister by notification in the Gazette , and the m inister may appoint different dates for different provisions of this a ct. Objects 3. () t he objects of this a ct are— (a) to promote national policy objectives for the communications and multimedia industry;

0 Laws of Malaysia Act 588 (b) to establish a licensing and regulatory framework in support of national policy objectives for the communications and multimedia industry; (c) to establish the powers and functions for the m alaysian Communications and m ultimedia Commission; and (d) to establish the powers and procedures for the administration of this a ct. () t he national policy objectives for the communications and multimedia industry are— (a) to establish m alaysia as a major global centre and hub for communications and multimedia information and content services; (b) to promote a civil society where information-based services will provide the basis of continuing enhancements to quality of work and life; (c) to grow and nurture local information resources and cultural representation that facilitate the national identity and global diversity; (d) to regulate for the long-term benefit of the end user; (e) to promote a high level of consumer confidence in service delivery from the industry; (f) to ensure an equitable provision of affordable services over ubiquitous national infrastructure; (g) to create a robust applications environment for end users; (h) to facilitate the efficient allocation of resources such as skilled labour, capital, knowledge and national assets; (i) to promote the development of capabilities and skills within m alaysia’s convergence industries; and (j) to ensure information security and network reliability and integrity. (3) n othing in this a ct shall be construed as permitting the censorship of the internet.

Communications and Multimedia t erritorial and extra-territorial application 4. () t his a ct and its subsidiary legislation apply both within and outside m alaysia. () n otwithstanding subsection ( ), this a ct and its subsidiary legislation shall apply to any person beyond the geographical limits of m alaysia and her territorial waters if such person— (a) is a licensee under this a ct; or (b) provides relevant facilities or services under this a ct in a place within m alaysia. (3) f or the purposes of this section, “a place” means a point of any nature or description whether on land, in the atmosphere, in outer space, underground, underwater, at sea or anywhere else. (4) f or the purposes of this section, a place that is— (a) in or below the stratosphere; and (b) above the geographical limits of malaysia and her territorial waters, is taken to be a place within the geographical limits of m alaysia and her territorial waters. Power of the Minister to exclude certain persons, geographical areas, etc. 5. n otwithstanding section 4, the m inister may, by order published in the Gazette , exclude or exempt any person or place, premises or geographical area of any description from the provisions of this a ct. Interpretation 6. in this a ct, unless the context otherwise requires— “access” means access to a network facility or network service listed under Chapter 3 of part vi ; “access code” means a voluntary industry code prepared under section 53; “access device” means any card, plate, code, account number, electronic serial number , mobile identification number, personal 

 Laws of Malaysia Act 588 identification number, or other network service, applications service or content applications ser vice, equipment, or facility identifier, or other means of access that can be used, alone or in conjunction with another access device, for the purposes of any communications; “access forum” means a forum designated under section 5; “access list” means the list of facilities or services established under Chapter 3 of part vi ; “agreement” means an agreement, whether formal or informal, oral or written, express or implied; “apparatus assignment” means an assignment issued under section 64; “a ppeal t ribunal” means the a ppeal t ribunal established under part iii ; “applications service” means a service provided by means of, but not solely by means of, one or more network services; “applications service provider” means a person who provides an applications service; “appointed date” means the date on which this a ct comes into operation; “arrangement” means an arrangement, whether formal or informal, oral or written, express or implied; “assignment” means the assignment by the Commission of rights to use the spectrum, numbers or electronic addresses and may include conditions to which the exercise of those rights shall be subject; “authorized interception” means interception by the licensee of any network facilities, network service or applications service permitted under section 65; “authorized officer” means any public officer or officer appointed by the Commission and authorized in writing by the m inister for the purposes of this a ct;

3Communications and Multimedia “certifying agency” means a certifying agency registered under section 86; “class assignment” means an assignment issued under section 69; “class licence” means a licence for any or all persons to conduct a specified activity and may include conditions to which the conduct of that activity shall be subject; “communications” means any communication, whether between persons and persons, things and things, or persons and things, in the form of sound, data, text, visual images, signals or any other form or any combination of those forms; “communications market” means an economic market for a network service, or an applications service, or for goods or services used in conjunction with a network service or an applications service, or for access to facilities used in conjunction with either a network service or an applications service; “Commission” means the m alaysian Communications and m ultimedia Commission established under the m alaysian Communications and multimedia Commission act 998 [ Act 589]; “conduit” means— (a) any conduit which, whether or not it is itself an electric line, is maintained by an electricity company for the purpose of enclosing, surrounding or supporting such line, including, where such conduit is connected to any box, chamber or other structure (including a building) maintained by an electricity supply company for purposes connected with the conveyance, transmission or distribution of electricity, that box, chamber or structure; (b) a water main or any other conduit maintained by a water authority for the purpose of conveying water from one place to another; (c) a public sewer; (d) a culvert or water course; or (e) any other underground facility for carrying, enclosing, surrounding or supporting any network facilities;

4 Laws of Malaysia Act 588 “consumer code” means a voluntary industry code prepared under Chapter  of part viii ; “consumer forum” means a forum designated under section 89; “content” means any sound, text, still picture, moving picture or other audio-visual representation, tactile representation or any combination of the preceding which is capable of being created, manipulated, stored, retrieved or communicated electronically; “content applications service” means an applications service which provides content; “content code” means a voluntary industry code prepared under Chapter  of part iX; “content forum” means a forum designated under section ; “court” means a court of law of competent jurisdiction; “customer equipment” means any equipment, whether hardware or software, or device, used on the customer side of the network boundary; “data processing device” means any article or device from which information is capable of being reproduced, with or without the aid of any other article or device; “declaration” means a declaration made by the m inister under section 3; “determination” means a determination made by the m inister under section 0, or by the Commission under section 55; “direction” means a direction issued by the m inister under section 7, or by the Commission under section 5 ; “director” has the meaning given to it in the Companies a ct 965 [ Act 125 ]; “disaster plan” means a disaster plan which may be developed in accordance with section 67;

5Communications and Multimedia “frequenc y band” means a continuous frequency range of spectrum; “incidental content” means a content which is incidental to the supply of an applications service because of— (a) it being related solely to the interface between an applications service and an end user; or (b) the reasons set out in a m inisterial determination made under section 0; “individual licence” means a licence for a specified person to conduct a specified activity and may include conditions to which the conduct of that activity shall be subject; “industry forum” means a forum designated under section 94; “instrument” includes a direction, determination or declaration; “intercept” means the aural or other acquisition of the contents of any communications through the use of any electronic, mechanical, or other equipment, device or apparatus; “interception capability” means the capability of any network facilities or network service or applications service to intercept communications under section 65; “licensee” means a person who either holds an individual licence, or undertakes activities which are subject to a class licence, granted under this a ct; “limited content applications service” means a content applications service the appeal of which is limited because of— (a) it being targeted to a special interest group; (b) it being available in a restricted geographical area; (c) it being available for a short time; (d) it being base d on content of limited appeal; or

6 Laws of Malaysia Act 588 (e) the reasons set o ut in a m inisterial determination made under section 0; “mail” includes the postal service; “mandatory standard” means a mandatory standard established under Chapter 0 of part v ; “m inister” means the m inister for the time being charged with the responsibility for communications and multimedia; “multimedia information and content” means digitized content; “network boundary” means the network boundary provided under section 8; “network facilities” means any element or combination of elements of physical infrastructure used principally for, or in connection with, the provision of network services, but does not include customer equipment; “network facilities provider” means a person who owns or provides any network facilities; “network service provider” means a person who provides network services; “nominated facilities provider” means a person, other than the owner of the network facilities, declared by the m inister to be a nominated facilities provider; “number” means a number, letter or symbol; “numbering and electronic addressing plan” means the numbering and electronic addressing plan developed under section 80; “owner” means the legal or beneficial owner; “post” means a post, pole, tower, standard, stay, strut or other above-ground facility for carrying, suspending or supporting any network facilities;

7Communications and Multimedia “public utility” means a bo dy that provides to the public— (a) reticulated products or services, such as electricity, gas, water, sewerage or drainage; (b) telecommunications services; (c) transport services; or (d) a product or service of a kind that is similar to a product or service covered by paragraph (a), (b) or (c); “register” means any one of the registers established or maintained by the Commission for the purposes of this a ct; “register of opinions” means the register of opinions maintained under section 97 or 0, or any other relevant section; “required applications service” means an applications service which is in a list determined by the m inister under section 9; “spectrum” means the continuous range of electromagnetic wave frequencies up to and including a frequency of 4 0 terahertz; “spectrum assignment” means the assignment issued under section 59; “spectrum plan” means the spectrum plan developed under section 7; “technical code” means a voluntary industry code prepared under Chapter 3 of part vii ; “technical standards forum” means a forum designated under section 84; “transmit” or “transmission” means to cause any emission of unguided electromagnetic energy in any part of the spectrum; “voluntary industry code” m eans a voluntary industry code prepared under Chapter 9 of part v.

8 Laws of Malaysia Act 588 PART ii ministe Rial powe Rs and pRo Cedu Res Chapter  Ministerial Direction d irection by the Minister 7. () t he m inister may, from time to time, issue directions to the Commission on the exercise of the Commission’s powers and the performance of the Commission’s functions and duties under this a ct, whether of a general character or otherwise. () a ny m inisterial direction shall be consistent with the objects and provisions of this a ct which are relevant to the particular matter or activity. (3) t he Commission shall exercise its powers conferred under this a ct in a manner which is consistent with a m inisterial direction. (4) e very m inisterial direction shall be registered by the Commission as soon as practicable. (5) a direction shall come into operation on the date of registration or such later date as the m inister may specify in the written instrument. (6) a direction shall expire on such date as the m inister may specify in the written instrument or, if no date is specified, the direction shall be in operation until the direction is revoked. Variation of a direction 8. () t he m inister may at any time modify, vary or revoke a direction. () t he procedure set out in section 7 shall apply mutatis mutandis in respect of any modification, variation or revocation of a direction.

9Communications and Multimedia Register of directions 9. t he Commission shall maintain a register of all directions issued by the m inister in accordance with Chapter 6 of part v. Chapter  Ministerial Determination d etermination by the Minister 10. () t he m inister may, from time to time, determine any matter specified in this a ct as being subject to m inisterial determination, without consultation with any licensees or persons. () a ny determination shall be consistent with the objects and provisions of this a ct which are relevant to the particular matter or activity. (3) t he Commission shall exercise its powers conferred under this a ct in a manner which is consistent with the determination. (4) t he m inister shall provide a copy of the determination under this Chapter to the Commission as soon as practicable. (5) e very determination shall be registered by the Commission as soon as practicable. (6) a determination shall come into operation on the date of registration or such later date as the m inister may specify in the written instrument. (7) a determination shall expire on such date as the m inister may specify in the written instrument or, if no date is specified, the determination shall be in operation until the determination is revoked. Variation of a determination 11. () t he m inister may at any time modify, vary or revoke a determination.

30 Laws of Malaysia Act 588 () t he procedu re set out in section 0 shall apply mutatis mutandis in respect of any modification, variation or revocation of a determination. Register of determinations 12. t he Commission shall maintain a register of all determinations made by the m inister in accordance with Chapter 6 of part v. Chapter 3 Ministerial Declaration d eclaration by the Minister 13. () t he m inister may, from time to time, make a written declaration that an individual licence, or a class of individual licences, or a class licence— (a) is subject to such conditions; or (b) enjoys such benefits, as the m inister deems fit. () a ny declaration on the conditions of licence shall relate to the matters set out in the s chedule. (3) t he m inister may also make a written declaration to exempt a licensee from complying with any conditions of a licence. (4) b efore making a declaration under subsection ( ), the, m inister shall give the affected licensees written notice of his intention to do so together with a draft copy of the declaration, and the licensees may make submissions to the m inister by submitting them to the Commission within the time period specified by the m inister but the time period shall not be less than thirty days. (5) a fter expiry of the notice specified in subsection (4), the m inister shall, on the recommendation of the Commission, decide on the next course of action, taking into consideration any submission made by the affected licensees.

3Communications and Multimedia (6) t he m inister shall give the affected licensees a written notice of th e declaration made under subsection ( ) as soon as practicable. (7) a ny declaration shall be consistent with the objects and provisions of this a ct which are relevant to the particular matter or activity. (8) t he Commission shall exercise its powers conferred under this a ct in a manner which is consistent with the declaration. (9) t he m inister shall provide a copy of the declaration under this Chapter to the Commission as soon as practicable. (0) e very declaration shall be registered by the Commission as soon as practicable. () a declaration other than a declaration under subsection () shall come into operation on the date of registration or such later date as the m inister may specify in the instrument. () a declaration shall expire on such date as the m inister may specify in the written notice or, if no date is specified, the declaration shall be in operation until the declaration is revoked. Modification, variation or revocation of a declaration 14. () t he m inister may at any time modify, vary or revoke a declaration regarding a licence. () t he procedure set out in section 3 shall apply mutatis mutandis in respect of any modification, variation or revocation of a declaration. Register of declarations 15. t he Commission shall maintain a register of all declarations made by the m inister in ac cordance with Chapter 6 of part v.

3 Laws of Malaysia Act 588 Chapter 4 Ministerial Regulations Minister’s power to make regulations 16. () t he m inister may, on the recommendation of the Commission or otherwise, make regulations, to be published in the Gazette , for all or any of the following purposes: (a) the procedures for the Commission and the a ppeal t ribunal in the exercise of their powers and functions under this a ct; (b) the form of, and requirements for, written authorizations, assignments and licences granted or issued under this a ct; (c) the procedures for the assignment of rights to the spectrum or numbers under part vii , including mechanisms for rate-based assignment; (d) any fees, charges or rates to be imposed; (e) the procedures for the implementation of a system of universal service provision under part viii , including but not limited to the quality of service standards; (f) the procedures for the use of network facilities, network services, applications services and content applications services in emergency or distress situations; (g) the compounding of offences; (h) any redress, including compensation or penalties in respect of a breach of or offence against any subsidiary legislation; (i) any matter for which this a ct makes express provision; and (j) such other matters as are necessary for giving full effect to the provisions of this a ct and for their due administration. () t he regulations made under subsection ( ), or any other subsidiary legislation made under this a ct, may prescribe any act in contravention of the regulations, or other subsidiary legislation, to 

33Communications and Multimedia be an offen ce and may prescribe penalties of a fine not exceeding three hundred thousand ringgit or a term of imprisonment not exceeding three years or both for such offence and, in the case of a continuing offence, may prescribe, in addition to such penalties, a fine of one thousand ringgit for every day or part of a day during which the offence continues after conviction. PART iii appeal t Ribunal e stablishment of the Appeal t ribunal 17. () t he m inister may establish an a ppeal t ribunal, which shall convene on an ad hoc basis, as the m inister considers necessary or expedient for good cause and in the interest of justice, or to assist in the performance of the Commission’s functions, or in the public interest. () t he m inister shall appoint, by order to be published in the Gazette — (a) a Chairman of the a ppeal t ribunal; and (b) at least two other members, or such greater number of members, of the a ppeal t ribunal, to review a particular matter under a licence, this a ct or its subsidiary legislation. (3) t he m inister shall appoint a person who is currently a Judge of the h igh Court to be the Chairman of the a ppeal t ribunal. (4) t he appointment of any member of the a ppeal t ribunal may be renewed upon the expiry of his term as a member. (5) n o member of the a ppeal t ribunal shall be appointed for a term exceeding three years. (6) n otwithstanding subsection (5), a member of the a ppeal t ribunal may be reappointed for a further term.

34 Laws of Malaysia Act 588 Matters which the Appeal t ribunal may r eview 18. () t he a ppeal t ribunal may review any matter on appeal, from a decision or direction of the Commission but not from a determination by the Commission. () a ny decision by the a ppeal t ribunal is final and binding on the parties to the appeal and is not subject to further appeal. Qualifications of members 19. a person is qualified to be a member of the a ppeal t ribunal if he has knowledge of or experience in— (a) the communications and multimedia industry; (b) engineering; (c) law; (d) economics or commerce; or (e) public administration. Resignation and termination of an appointment 20. () t he m inister may at any time terminate the appointment of the Chairman or any other member of the a ppeal t ribunal if— (a) he resigns his office; (b) he becomes of unsound mind or otherwise incapable of performing his duties or managing his affairs; (c) he becomes bankrupt or insolvent; (d) he is prohibited from being a director of a company under any written law relating to companies; (e) he has been convicted of an offence, under any law, by a court in m alaysia; (f) he is guilty of serious misconduct in relation to his duties; (g) he fails to comply with his obligations under section 6; or

35Communications and Multimedia (h) his performance h as been unsatisfactory for a significant period of time. () t he Chairman or any member may, at any time, resign his office by giving a written notice to the m inister. Vacation of office and acting appointments 21. () t he office of the Chairman or any member of the a ppeal t ribunal shall be vacated if— (a) he dies; (b) he resigns or otherwise vacates his office before the expiry of the term for which he is appointed; or (c) his appointment is terminated. () t he m inister shall appoint a person in accordance with section 7 to replace the Chairman or any other member during the vacancy in the office of the Chairman or any other member. (3) t he m inister shall appoint a person in accordance with section 7 to act as the Chairman, or any other member— (a) during any period when the Chairman or any other member is absent from any duty or from m alaysia; or (b) if the Chairman or any other member is, for any reason, unable to perform the duties of the office. (4) t he exercise of the powers, or the performance of the functions, of the a ppeal t ribunal is not affected only because of there being a vacancy in the membership of the t ribunal. Quorum for the Appeal t ribunal 22. t he quorum for the a ppeal t ribunal shall be formed by— (a) a Judge; and (b) at least two other members, or any greater even number of members not exceeding four, none of whom are Judges, for the purposes of the functions o f the a ppeal t ribunal under this a ct.

36 Laws of Malaysia Act 588 d ecisio n 23. t he decision of the a ppeal t ribunal, on any matter, shall be decided on a majority of votes of the members. e nforcement of decision of Appeal t ribunal 23A. a ny decision given by the a ppeal t ribunal may be enforced in the same manner as a judgment or an order of the h igh Court. Appeal t ribunal procedures 24. t he m inister may make regulations regarding the operating procedures of the a ppeal t ribunal, including but not limited to— (a) the funding of the a ppeal t ribunal; (b) members’ remuneration; (c) the appointment of members to form the quorum of the a ppeal t ribunal; (d) the appointment of an acting member; (e) the conduct of the hearings; (f) any other matter incidental to the hearings; and (g) the employment of staff, if any. Powers of Appeal t ribunal 24A. t he a ppeal t ribunal shall have the power— (a) to summon parties to the proceedings or any other person to attend before it to give evidence in respect of an appeal; (b) to procure and receive evidence on oath or affirmation, whether written or oral, and examine all such persons as witnesses as the a ppeal t ribunal thinks necessary to procure, receive or examine; (c) where a person is so summoned, to require the production of an y book, paper, document, record or other thing in 

37Communications and Multimedia his posses sion or under his control and which the a ppeal t ribunal may consider necessary for the purposes of the appeal; (d) to administer any oath, affirmation or statutory declaration, as the case may require; (e) where a person is so summoned, to allow the payment for any reasonable expenses incurred in connection with his attendance; (f) of a subordinate court with regard to the enforcement of attendance of witnesses, hearing evidence on oath or affirmation and punishment for contempt; (g) to admit evidence or reject evidence adduced, whether oral or documentary, and whether admissible or inadmissible under the provisions of any written law for the time being in force relating to the admissibility of evidence; (h) to adjourn the hearing of an appeal from time to time, including the power to adjourn to consider its decision; and (i) to generally direct and do all such things as may be necessary or expedient for the expeditious decision of the appeal. Suspension of member 25. t he m inister may, at his discretion, suspend any member of the a ppeal t ribunal on the ground of misbehaviour or incapacity. d isclosure of interest 26. () a member of the a ppeal t ribunal shall disclose, as soon as practicable, to the Chairman any interest, whether substantial or not, which may conflict with the member’s duties as a member of the t ribunal, in a particular matter. () i f the Chairman is of the opinion that the member’s interest is in conflict with the member’s duties, the Chairman shall inform all the parties, including the appellants and the respondents, to the matter of the conflict.

38 Laws of Malaysia Act 588 (3) i f none of the parties to the matter objects to the conflict, the member may continue to execute his duties as a member of the t ribunal in relation to that matter. (4) i f a party to the matter objects to the conflict, the member shall not continue to execute his duties as a member of the t ribunal in relation to that matter. (5) t he failure by a member to disclose his interest in the matter shall subject him to the relevant disciplinary measures under section 0 or 5. Secretary of Appeal t ribunal and other officers 26A. () t he m inister shall designate a public officer as a s ecretary of the a ppeal t ribunal to assist the a ppeal t ribunal in carrying out its function under this a ct. () t he m inister may designate such number of other public officers as the m inister thinks fit to assist the s ecretary in carrying out his function under subsection ( ). (3) f or the purpose of this a ct, the s ecretary and the officers designated under subsection ( ) shall be deemed to be officers of the a ppeal t ribunal. Obligation of secrecy 26b . () e xcept for this part or for the purposes of any civil or criminal proceedings under any written law, or where authorized by the m inister— (a) the Chairman, members of the a ppeal t ribunal or any officer of the a ppeal t ribunal shall not, during the time he serves as such Chairman, member or officer, disclose any information obtained by him in the course of his duties; and (b) no other person who has, by any means, access to any information or document relating to the affairs of the a ppeal t ribunal shall disclose such information or document.

39Communications and Multimedia () a person who contravenes subsection ( ) commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding ten thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding three months or to both. Public servants and public officers 26c . t he Chairman and all members and officers of the a ppeal t ribunal, while discharging their duties as the Chairman and such members and officers, shall be deemed to be public servants within the meaning of the penal Code [ Act 574 ], and to be public officers for the purposes of the Criminal procedure Code [Act 593 ]. Application of Public Authorities Protection Act 1948 26d . t he public a uthorities protection a ct 948 [ Act 198 ] shall apply to any action, suit, prosecution or proceedings against the a ppeal t ribunal, Chairman or any member or officer of the a ppeal t ribunal in respect of any act, neglect or default done or committed by him in such capacity. Act or omission done in good faith 26e . n o action or suit shall be instituted or maintained in any court against— (a) the a ppeal t ribunal; (b) the Chairman or any member of the a ppeal t ribunal; (c) the s ecretary or any other officer of the a ppeal t ribunal; or (d) a person authorized to act for and on behalf of the a ppeal t ribunal, for any act or omission done in good faith in the performance of its or his functions and the exercise of its or his powers under this a ct and any subsid iary legislation made under this a ct.

40 Laws of Malaysia Act 588 PART iv li Cen Ces Chapter 1 Individual Licence Application for an individual licence 27. () s ubject to subsection ( ), a person may apply, in writing, to the Commission for an individual licence in respect of any matter requiring an individual licence under this a ct. () f or the purposes of subsection ( ), the m inister may set out in the regulations made under section 6 the persons or classes of persons who are not eligible to apply for an individual licence. (3) a n application under this section may be withdrawn at any time before it is granted or refused. Further information 28. () t he Commission may at any time after the application for an individual licence is made, request the applicant to give the Commission, within the period specified in the request, further information on the application. () i f any additional information or document required under subsection ( ) is not provided by the applicant within the time specified in the request or any extension of time granted by the Commission, the application shall be deemed to be withdrawn and shall not be further proceeded with, but without affecting the right of the applicant to make a fresh application. Recommendation by the c ommission 29. t he Commission shall, within sixty days of receiving an application for an individual licence under this part or such other period as may be specified by the m inister, provide a written recommendation to the m inister specifying— (a) whether the individual licence should be granted to the applicant;

4Communications and Multimedia (b) any special or additional conditions which the individual licence should be subject to, if the Commission recommends the granting of the individual licence; and (c) the reasons for its recommendation. Grant of an individual licence 30. () t he m inister shall have due regard to the recommendation of the Commission given under section 9 before making a decision. () t he m inister may, acting on the recommendation of the Commission, by written notice— (a) grant an individual licence in accordance with the provisions of this part; and (b) declare that an individual licence granted under this part be subject to special or additional conditions. (3) i f the m inister grants an individual licence under subsection (), the Commission shall inform the applicant by written notice— (a) that the individual licence has been granted; and (b) of any special or additional conditions, which are declared by the m inister under section 3. (4) n otwithstanding subsection ( ), all individual licences shall be deemed to include the relevant standard licence conditions specified in the s chedule. (5) t he individual licence granted under subsection ( ) is subject to any other approvals of the relevant authorities, including the s tate a uthority, for the placing, laying or maintenance of any network facilities on, through, under, or across any land. (6) i f the m inister refuses to grant an individual licence to an applicant, the m inister shall give the applicant a written notice informing him— (a) that the application has been refused; and (b) the reasons for the refusal.

4 Laws of Malaysia Act 588 (7) f or the purposes of this section, the m inister shall inform the applicant by written notice of his decision, as soon as practicable, after making the decision to approve or refuse the application. (8) i f the m inister neither grants, nor refuses to grant, an individual licence within thirty days from the receipt of the recommendation by the Commission, the m inister is deemed, at the end of the period, to have refused to grant the individual licence unless the applicant receives a written notice approving the application for an individual licence after the period. (9) a n approval fee, to be decided upon by the m inister, shall be payable upon the approval of the application. Restriction on the grant of an individual licence 31. t he m inister may not grant an individual licence to a person if that person is operating under an existing class licence in respect of the same service or activity. c ompliance with the conditions of an individual licence 32. a n individual licensee shall comply with— (a) the relevant standard conditions of the individual licence as set out in the s chedule; and (b) any special or additional conditions of the individual licence as declared by the m inister and included in the individual licence. Modification, variation or revocation of individual licence conditions 33. () t he m inister may, at any time, by declaration in accordance with section 3— (a) modify or vary the special or additional conditions of an existing individual licence; (b) revoke the special or additional conditions of an existing individual licence; or (c) impose further special or additional conditions to an existing individual licence.

43Communications and Multimedia () t he procedures set out in section 3 shall apply mutatis mutandis to the modification, variation, or revocation of a licence condition under this section. Renewal of an individual licence 34. () t he licensee may apply for the renewal of an individual licence not later than sixty days before its expiry. () t he renewal fee, to be decided upon by the m inister, shall be payable upon approval of the application. (3) t he application for the renewal of an individual licence shall be granted by the m inister unless the m inister, on the recommendation of the Commission, determines that the licensee— (a) has failed to comply with the terms and conditions of the individual licence; (b) has failed to comply with the provisions of this a ct; or (c) has failed to comply with any instrument issued, made or given by the m inister or the Commission. (4) i f the m inister has no intention of renewing the individual licence, the Commission shall— (a) inform the licensee by written notice, as soon as practicable, of his refusal to renew the individual licence; and (b) notify and publish, at least thirty days before the expiry of the individual licence, such intention in at least one national language and one e nglish language national daily newspapers for at least three consecutive days. (5) t he affected licensee shall be given a reasonable opportunity to make written submissions to the m inister within a time period specified in the notice and such time period shall not be less than fourteen days. (6) t he affected licensee may, within the time period specified in the notice, submit a written submission and the m inister shall consider the su bmission.

44 Laws of Malaysia Act 588 Surrender of an individual licence 35. () a licensee may, by written notice, surrender his individual licence to the m inister— (a) at any time; or (b) in accordance with the requirements set out in the individual licence. () t he surrender shall take effect on the date the Commission receives the individual licence and the notice under subsection ( ), or where a later date is specified in the notice, on that date. (3) t he surrender of an individual licence shall be irrevocable unless it is expressed to take effect on a later date and before that date the Commission, by notice in writing to the licensee, allows the surrender to be withdrawn. t ransfer of an individual licence or change of ownership 36. () t he grant of an individual licence shall be personal to the licensee and the individual licence shall not be assigned or transferred to any other party unless the prior written approval of the m inister has been granted. () t he m inister may seek the advice of the Commission before granting an approval under subsection ( ). Recommendation for the suspension or cancellation of an individual licence 37. t he m inister may, on the recommendation of the Commission, by declaration in accordance with section  3, suspend or cancel an individual licence granted under this a ct in any of the following circumstances: (a) the licensee has failed to pay any amount required by this a ct or the individual licence; (b) the licensee has failed to comply with the provisions of this a ct or the terms and conditions of the individual licence;

45Communications and Multimedia (c) the licensee has contravened the provisions of any other written law relevant to the communications and multimedia industry; (d) the licensee has failed to comply with any instrument issued, made or given by the m inister or the Commission; or (e) the suspension or cancellation is in the public interest. Suspension or cancellation of an individual licence by the Minister 38. () t he m inister may, by declaration in accordance with section 3, suspend or cancel an individual licence granted under this part in any one of the circumstances set out in section 37. () t he procedures set out in section 3 shall apply mutatis mutandis to the suspension or cancellation of an individual licence under this section. e ffective date of suspension or cancellation of an individual licence 39. t he suspension or cancellation of an individual licence shall take effect on the expiration of fourteen days from the date on which the notice of suspension or cancellation is served on the licensee. Publication on suspension or cancellation of an individual licence 40. () w here the suspension or cancellation of an individual licence has taken effect, the Commission shall, as soon as practicable, cause the suspension or cancellation to be published in at least one national language and one e nglish language national daily newspapers for at least three consecutive days. () a ny delay or failure to publish the notice of suspension or cancellation shall not in any manner affect the validity of the suspension or canc ellation.

46 Laws of Malaysia Act 588 e ffect of suspension, cancellation, surrender or expiry of an individual licence 41. () w here the suspension or cancellation of an individual licence under section 37, or the surrender of an individual licence under section 35, has taken effect, or where the individual licence has expired, the licensee shall immediately cease to provide any facility or service in respect of which the individual licence was granted. () n otwithstanding subsection ( ), the m inister may, on the recommendation of the Commission, authorize the licensee in writing to carry on providing any facility or service for such duration as the m inister may specify in the authorization for the purpose of winding up the licensee’s affairs. (3) n otwithstanding subsection ( ), the licensee whose individual licence has expired shall be entitled to carry on providing a facility or service as if his individual licence had not expired upon proof being submitted to the Commission that the licensee has applied for the renewal of the individual licence in accordance with section 34 and that such application is pending determination by the m inister. (4) s ubject to subsections ( ) and (3), a person who contravenes subsection ( ) commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding five hundred thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding five years or to both. Register of individual licences 42. () t he m inister shall provide a copy to the Commission of— (a) any individual licence granted under this part; (b) any special or additional conditions specified in the individual licence; (c) any written notice varying, revoking or imposing any special or additional conditions specified in the individual licence; (d) any written notice by the licensee surrendering his individual licence;

47Communications and Multimedia (e) any written notice by the minister suspending or cancelling the individual licence; and (f) any written notice approving the transfer of an individual licence or a change in beneficial ownership of the individual licence. () t he Commission shall maintain a register, which shall be made available to the public, of all individual licences which have been granted under this part. (3) t he Commission shall maintain a separate register, which shall be made available to the public, of all the matters listed in paragraphs ( ) (b) to (f). (4) t he Commission shall maintain the registers in accordance with Chapter 6 of part v. Rights and obligations attached to an individual licence 43. () t he grant of certain individual licences may be conditional on the registration of undertakings by a prospective licensee. () i n granting individual licences, the m inister may declare specified benefits only for licensees who have current registered undertakings under this section. (3) t he m inister may make regulations on the types of matters which may be included in an undertaking by a prospective licensee and the commensurate benefits for which the licensee shall be eligible in respect of such matters. (4) t he regulations made by the m inister under section 6 and this section may provide for any or all specified benefits to have effect when a licensee meets any one or more of the terms of his undertakings under subsection ( ), as the m inister deems fit. (5) a licence fee shall be payable by a licensee to the Commission under this section, subject to such terms as may be provided in the regulations made, and as required in the individual licence granted, under this part.

48 Laws of Malaysia Act 588 Chapter  Class Licence Minister may grant class licence 44. () t he m inister may grant a class licence in respect of any matter requiring a licence under this a ct. () a class licence granted under subsection ( ) may include the relevant standard conditions as set out in the s chedule and/or such other standard conditions as may be declared by the m inister from time to time. (3) t he m inister shall give a copy of all class licences to the Commission as soon as practicable and the Commission shall register them. Application for registration 45. () a person who intends to operate under a class licence shall register with the Commission by submitting a registration notice to the Commission. () a registration fee, to be prescribed by the m inister by notification in the Gazette , shall be payable by the person to the Commission upon the registration of that person. Requirement for registration 46. s ubject to the exceptions provided in this a ct, no person shall operate under any class licence unless the person is duly registered by the Commission. Recommendation by the c ommission 47. t he Commission may make a written recommendation to the m inister that the person subject to a class licence under this part be de-registered in any of the following circumstances: (a) the person has failed to pay any amount required by this a ct or the licence;

49Communications and Multimedia (b) the person ha s failed to comply with the provisions of this a ct or the terms and conditions of the licence; (c) the person has contravened the provisions of any written law relevant to the communications and multimedia industry; (d) the person has failed to comply with any instrument issued, made or given by the m inister or the Commission; or (e) the de-registration is in the public interest. c ancellation of registration by the Minister 48. () t he m inister may, by declaration in accordance with section 3, cancel the registration of a person under this part according to the recommendation of the Commission made under section 47. () t he person whose registration has been cancelled shall cease the activity to which the registration applied until such time as the Commission, with the prior express direction of the m inister, has agreed to reregister the person. Register of class licences 49. t he Commission shall maintain a separate register, which shall be made available to the public, of— (a) all class licences; (b) all declarations by the m inister varying or revoking conditions, or imposing other standard conditions as specified in the licence; and (c) all written notices by the m inister cancelling any registration. Register of registration notices 50. t he Commission shall maintain a register of all registration notices approved and registered under this a ct, in accordance with Chapter 6 of part v.

50 Laws of Malaysia Act 588 PART v powe Rs and pRo Cedu Res of the malaysian Communi Cations and multimedia C ommission Chapter  Directions d irections by the c ommission 51. () t he Commission may, from time to time, issue directions in writing to any person regarding the compliance or non-compliance of any licence conditions, and including but not limited to the remedy of a breach of a licence condition, and the provisions of this a ct or its subsidiary legislation. () before issuing a direction under subsection (), the Commission shall issue a notice in writing to the person specifying the nature of required compliance. (3) t he person shall be granted an opportunity to be heard or may submit a written submission within a reasonable time period specified in the notice on the reasons for his conduct or activity. (4) a fter the expiry of the notice specified in subsection (3), the Commission shall take into consideration any reasons provided by the person before making a decision in relation to the relevant conduct or activity of the person. (5) a fter due consideration of any reasons provided by the person, the Commission may issue a direction under subsection () requiring the person to take specified action directed towards ensuring that the person does not contravene or continue to contravene any of the conditions of his licence and/or any of the provisions of this a ct or its subsidiary legislation. (6) t he Commission shall give the person written notice of its direction as soon as practicable. (7) t he person shall comply with the direction issued by the Commission under subsection (6).

51Communications and Multimedia 	 (8) 	A	direction 	issued 	by	the	Commission 	under 	this	Chapter	 shall 	be	regis tered	as	soon	as	practicable. 	 (9) 	The	direction 	shall 	be	effective 	from	the	date	of	registration	 or	such	later	date	as	the	Commission 	may	specify. 	 (10) 	The	direction 	shall 	expire 	on	such	date	as	the	Commission	 may	specify 	in	the	written 	instrument 	or,	if	no	date	is	specified,	 the	direction 	shall 	be	in	operation 	until	it	is	revoked. Modification, variation or revocation of a direction by the Commission 52. (1) 	The 	Commission 	may 	modify, 	vary 	or 	revoke 	a	 direction. 	 (2) 	The	procedure 	set	out	in	section 	51	shall 	apply	 mutatis mutandis in	respect 	of	any	modification, 	variation 	or	revocation	 of	a	direction. Offence for non-compliance with a direction of the Commission 53. A	person 	who 	fails 	to	comply 	with 	a	direction 	of	the	 Commission 	commits 	an	offence 	and	shall, 	on	conviction, 	be	 liable 	to	a	fine	not	exceeding 	three	hundred 	thousand 	ringgit 	or	to	 imprisonment 	for	a	term	not	exceeding 	three 	years	or	to	both. Register of directions 54. The	Commission 	shall 	maintain 	a	register 	of	all	directions	 issued 	by	the	Commission, 	including 	any	written 	instruments	 modifying, 	varying 	or	revoking 	a	direction, 	in	accordance 	with	 Chapter 	6	of	this	Part. Chapter 	2 Determination Determination by the Commission 55. (1)	The	Commissi on	may,	from	time	to	time,	determine 	any	 matter 	specified 	in	this	Act	as	being 	subject 	to	the	Commission’s	 determination.

52 Laws of Malaysia Act 588 	 (2) 	The	Commission 	may	conduct 	an	inquiry 	to	decide 	whether	 a	determination 	should 	be	made,	either— (a) in	response 	to	a	written 	request 	from	a	person; 	or (b) on	its	own	initiative. 	 (3) 	Notwithstanding 	subsection 	(1),	the	Commission 	shall 	not	 conduct 	an	inquiry 	unless 	it	is	satisfied 	that	the	matter 	is	of	 significant 	interest 	to	either 	the	public 	or	to	current 	or	prospective	 licensees 	under	this	Act. 	 (4) 	An	inquiry 	shall 	be	carried 	out	in	accordance 	with	Chapter	 3	of	this	Part,	and	at	a	standard 	and	in	a	manner 	consistent 	with	 the	provisions 	of	this	Act	and	its	subsidiary 	legislation 	and	any	 instrument 	issued, 	made	or	given	under 	this	Act. 	 (5) 	Within	forty-five 	days	from	the	conclusion 	of	the	inquiry,	 the	Commission 	shall 	determine 	the	matter. 	 (6) 	Any	determination 	by	the	Commission 	shall 	be	consistent	 with	the	objects 	of,	and	any	requirements 	provided 	in,	this	Act	 which 	are	relevant 	to	the	particular 	matter 	or	activity. 	 (7) 	A	determination 	made	by	the	Commission 	under	this	Chapter	 shall 	be	registered 	as	soon	as	practicable. 	 (8) 	A	determination 	shall 	come 	into 	force 	on	the	date 	of	 registration 	or	such	later	date	as	the	Commission 	may	specify. 	 (9) 	A	determination 	shall	expire 	on	such	date	as	the	Commission	 may	specify 	or,	if	no	date	is	specified, 	the	determination 	shall	 be	in	force 	until	the	determination 	is	revoked. Modification, variation or revocation of a determination by the Commission 56. (1)	Subject 	to	the	provisions 	of	this	Act,	the	Commission	 may	modify,	vary	or	revoke 	a	determination, 	in	response 	to	a	 written 	request 	or	on	its	own	initiative. 	 (2) 	The	procedures 	set	out	in	section 	55	shall 	apply	mutatis mutandis in	respect 	of	any	modification, 	variation 	or	revocation	 of	the	determination.

53Communications and Multimedia Register of determinations 57. The	Commission 	shall	maintain 	a	register 	of	all	determinations	 made 	by	the 	Commission, 	including 	any 	written 	instrument	 modifying, 	varying 	or	revoking 	a	determination, 	in	accordance	 with	Chapter 	6	of	this	Part. Chapter 	3 Inquiry Inquiry by the Commission 58. (1) 	The 	Commission 	shall, 	in	response 	to	a	Ministerial	 direction, 	hold	a	public 	inquiry 	on	any	matter 	of	a	general 	nature	 which 	relates 	to	the	administration 	of	this	Act	or	its	subsidiary	 legislation 	which 	will	serve	the	objects 	of	this	Act. 	 (2) 	The 	Commission 	may 	hold 	a	public 	inquiry 	under	 	 subsection 	(1)— (a) in	response 	to	a	written 	request 	from	a	person; 	or (b) on	its	own	initiative, only	if	it	is	satisfied 	that	the	matter 	is	of	significant 	interest 	to	 either 	the	public 	or	to	current 	or	prospective 	licensees 	under	 this	Act. Combining two or more inquiries 59.	 The	Commission 	may	combine 	two	or	more	inquiries 	into	a	 single 	inquiry. Conduct of an inquiry 60.	 (1)	 An	inquiry 	under 	this	Part	is	to	be	conducted 	as	and	 when	the	Commission 	thinks 	fit. 	 (2)	The 	Commission 	may,	for	the	purposes 	of	an	inquiry,	exercise	 any	or	all	of	its	investigation 	and	information-gathering 	powers	 under	Chapters 	4	and	5	of	this	Part.

54 Laws of Malaysia Act 588 Inquiry shall be public 61.	(1)	Subject 	to	section 	62,	if	the	Commission 	decides 	to	 hold	a	public 	inquiry 	or	is	directed 	to	hold	a	public 	inquiry, 	the	 Commission 	shall 	publish, 	in	the	manner 	that	it	deems 	appropriate,	 notice 	of— (a) the	fact	that	it	is	holding 	the	inquiry; (b) the	period 	during 	which 	the	inquiry 	is	to	be	held; (c) the	nature 	of	the	matter 	to	which	the	inquiry 	relates; (d) the	period, 	of	at	least 	forty-five 	days,	within 	which, 	and	 the	form	in	which, 	members 	of	the	public 	are	invited	 to	make 	submissions 	to	the	Commission 	about 	that	 matter; (e) the	matters	that	the	Commission	would	like	the	submissions	 to	deal	with;	and (f) the	address 	or	addresses 	to	which	the	submissions 	may	 be	sent. 	 (2) 	The	Commission 	does	not	need	to	publish 	at	the	same	 time	or	in	the	same	manner 	the	notice 	of	all	matters 	referred 	to	 in	subsection 	(1). 	 (3) 	The	Commission 	shall 	consider 	any	submissions 	received	 within 	the	time	limit	as	specified 	in	the	notice. 	 (4) 	The	submissions 	made	by	the	members 	of	the	public 	shall	 be	in	the	form	and	of	the	nature 	as	specified 	in	the	notice. Exceptions to a public inquiry 62.	 Notwithstanding 	section 	61,	an	inquiry 	or	a	part	of	an	inquiry	 may	be	conducted 	in	private 	if	the	Commission 	is	satisfied	 that— (a) the	documents 	or	information 	that	may	be	given, 	or	a	 matter 	that	may	arise 	during 	the	inquiry 	or	a	part	of	 the	inquiry, 	is	of	a	confidential 	nature; 	or (b) an	inquiry 	or	part	of	an	inquiry 	of	a	matter, 	or	part	of	 a	matter, 	in	public 	would 	not	be	conducive 	to	the	due	 administration 	of	this	Act.

55Communications and Multimedia Confidential material not to be disclosed 63.	(1)	If	an	inquiry 	takes	place	in	public 	and	the	Commission	 is	of	the	opinion 	that— (a) the	evidence 	or	other	material 	presented 	to	the	inquiry;	 or (b) the	material 	in	written 	submissions 	lodged 	with 	the	 Commission, is	of	a	confidential 	nature, 	the	Commission 	may	direct 	that— (aa) the	evidence 	or	material 	should 	not	be	published; 	or (bb) its	disclosure 	be	restricted. 	 (2) 	A	person 	shall 	not	without 	reasonable 	excuse 	fail	to	comply	 with	a	direction 	under 	subsection 	(1). Directions about an inquiry 64.	(1)	If	an	inquiry 	or	part	of	an	inquiry 	takes 	place	in	private,	 the	Commission— (a) shall 	give	a	direction 	as	to	the	persons 	who	may	be	 present 	at	the	inquiry 	or	part	of	the	inquiry; 	and (b) may	give	a	direction 	restricting 	the	disclosure 	of	evidence	 or	other	material 	presented 	at	the	inquiry 	or	part	of	the	 inquiry. 	 (2) 	Notwithstanding 	section	53,	a	person	who	without	reasonable	 excuse 	fails 	to	comply 	with	a	direction 	given	under 	subsection	 (1)	commits 	an	offence 	and	shall, 	on	conviction, 	be	liable 	to	a	 fine	not	exceeding 	twenty 	thousand 	ringgit 	or	to	imprisonment	 for	a	term	not	exceeding 	six	months 	or	to	both. Report on an inquiry 65.	(1)	The	Commission 	shall 	publish 	a	report, 	setting 	out	its	 findings 	as	a	result 	of	any	inquiry 	it	conducts. 	 (2) 	The	Commission 	shall 	publish 	the	report 	within 	thirty 	days	 of	the	conclusion 	of	the	inquiry.

56 Laws of Malaysia Act 588 	 (3) 	The 	Commission 	shall 	not 	include 	in	the 	report 	any	 material— (a) that	is	of	a	confidential 	nature; (b) the	disclosure 	of	which 	is	likely 	to	prejudice 	the	fair	trial	 of	a	person; (c) which 	would 	involve 	the	unreasonable 	disclosure 	of	 personal 	information 	about	any	individual 	(including 	a	 deceased 	individual); 	or (d) that	is	the	subject 	of	a	direction 	under 	section 	63	or	 64. Protection from civil action 66.	 Civil	proceedings 	shall 	not	lie	against 	a	person 	in	respect 	of	 any	loss,	damage 	or	injury 	of	any	kind	suffered 	by	another 	person	 because 	of	any	of	the	following 	acts	done	in	good	faith: (a) the	making 	of	a	request 	under	section 	58;	or (b) the	making 	of	a	statement, 	or	giving 	of	a	document 	or	 information, 	to	the	Commission 	in	relation 	to	an	inquiry	 under 	this	Chapter. Register of reports 67.	 The	Commission 	shall 	maintain 	a	register 	of	all	reports 	made	 pursuant 	to	an	inquiry 	under 	this	Chapter, 	in	accordance 	with	the	 provisions 	in	Chapter 	6	of	this	Part. Chapter 	4 Investigation for Purposes of Administration, Inquiry, etc. Investigation by the Commission 68.	 Notwithstanding 	the	provisions 	of	any	other 	written 	law,	 the	Commission 	shall 	investigate 	any	matter 	pertaining 	to	the	 administration 	of	this	Act	or	its	subsidiary 	legislation 	if— (a) the 	Minister 	directs 	the 	Commission 	to	conduct 	an	 investigation 	into	any	civil	or	criminal 	offence 	under	

57Communications and Multimedia this	Act	or	its	subsidiary 	legislation 	which	may	have	 been	or	may	be	committed; 	or (b) the	Commission 	has	grounds 	to	believe 	that	a	civil	or	 criminal	offence	under	this	Act	or	its	subsidiary 	legislation	 was,	is	or	will	be	committed. Complaints to the Commission 69.	(1)	The	Commission 	may	conduct 	an	investigation 	on	a	matter	 referred 	to	in	section 	68	upon	a	written 	complaint 	by	a	person. 	 (2) 	The	complaint 	shall 	specify 	the	person 	against 	whom	the	 complaint 	is	made	(“the	respondent”). 	 (3) 	If	it	appears 	to	the	Commission 	that— (a) a	person 	wishes 	to	make	a	complaint; 	and (b) the	person 	requires 	assistance 	to	formulate 	the	complaint	 or	to	reduce 	it	into	writing, it	is	the	duty	of	the	Commission 	to	take	reasonable 	steps 	to	 provide 	appropriate 	assistance 	to	the	person. 	 (4) 	If	a	complaint 	has	been	made	to	the	Commission 	under 	this	 section, 	the	Commission 	may	make	inquiries 	of	the	respondent	 for	the	purpose 	of	deciding— (a) whether 	the	Commission 	has	power 	to	investigate 	the	 matter 	to	which 	the	complaint 	relates; 	or (b) whether	the	Commission	should,	in	its	discretion,	investigate	 the	matter. 	 (5) 	If	the	Commission 	decides 	not	to	investigate, 	or	not	to	 investigate 	further, 	a	matter 	to	which 	a	complaint 	relates, 	it	 shall 	as	soon	as	practicable 	and	in	such	manner 	as	it	thinks 	fit,	 inform 	the	complainant 	and	the	respondent 	of	the	decision 	and	 the	reasons 	for	the	decision. Conduct of investigation 70.	(1)	Before 	beginning 	an	investigation 	of	a	matter 	to	which	 the	complaint 	relates, 	the	Commission 	shall 	inform 	the	respondent	 that	the	matter 	is	to	be	investigated.

58 Laws of Malaysia Act 588 	 (2) 	An	investigation 	under 	this	Part	is	to	be	conducted 	as	the	 Commission 	thinks 	fit. 	 (3) 	The	Commission 	may,	for	the	purposes 	of	an	investigation,	 obtain 	information 	from	such	persons 	as	it	thinks 	fit. 	 (4) 	Subject	to	subsection 	(5),	it	is	not	necessary 	for	a	complainant	 or	a	respondent 	to	be	given 	an	opportunity 	to	appear 	before 	the	 Commission 	in	connection 	with	an	investigation. 	 (5) 	The	Commission 	shall 	not,	as	a	result 	of	the	investigation,	 make	a	finding 	that	is	adverse 	to	a	complainant 	or	a	respondent	 unless 	it	has	given 	the	complainant 	or	respondent 	an	opportunity	 to	make	submissions 	about 	a	matter 	to	which	the	investigation	 relates 	within 	a	time	period 	of	not	less	than	thirty 	days. 	 (6) 	The	Commission 	shall 	consider 	the	submissions 	made	by	 the	complainant 	or	the	respondent 	under 	subsection 	(5)	before	 making 	its	decision. Report on investigation 71.	(1)	After	concluding 	an	investigation, 	the	Commission 	may	 prepare 	and	give	to	the	Minister 	a	report. 	 (2) 	The	report 	under 	subsection 	(1)	shall 	cover— (a) the	conduct 	of	the	investigation 	concerned; (b) any	findings 	that	the	Commission 	has	made	as	a	result	 of	the	investigation; (c) the	evidence 	and	other	material 	on	which	those	findings	 were	based; 	and (d) such	other 	matters 	relating 	to,	or	arising 	out	of,	the	 investigation 	as	the	Commission 	thinks 	fit	or	as	the	 Minister 	directs. Publication of reports 72.	 The	Minister 	may	direct 	the	Commission 	to	publish 	a	report	 of	an	investigation 	if	the	Minister 	is	satisfied 	that	the	publication	 would 	be	in	the	national 	interest.

59Communications and Multimedia Chapter 	5 Information-gathering Powers Provision of information 73.	(1)	This	section 	applies 	to	any	person 	if	the	Commission 	has	 reason 	to	believe 	that	the	person— (a) has	any	information 	(including 	but	not	limited 	to	accounts	 and	records) 	or	any	document 	that	is	relevant 	to	the	 performance 	of	the	Commission’s	powers 	and	functions	 under 	this	Act	or	its	subsidiary 	legislation; 	or (b) is	capable 	of	giving 	any	evidence 	which	the	Commission	 has	reason 	to	believe 	is	relevant 	to	the	performance 	of	 the	Commission’s	powers 	and	functions 	under 	this	Act	 or	its	subsidiary 	legislation. 	 (2) 	Notwithstanding 	the	provisions 	of	any	other 	written 	law,	 the	Commission 	may,	by	a	written 	notice, 	direct 	any	person— (a) to	give	the	Commission, 	within 	the	period 	and	in	the	 manner 	and 	form 	specified 	in	the 	notice, 	any 	such	 information; (b) to	produce 	to	the	Commission, 	within 	the	period 	and	in	 the	manner 	specified 	in	the	notice, 	any	such	documents,	 whether 	in	a	physical 	form	or	in	an	electronic 	media; (c) to	make	copies 	of	any	such	documents 	and	to	produce	 those	copies 	to	the	Commission 	within 	the	period 	and	 in	the	manner 	specified 	in	the	notice; (d) if	the	person 	is	an	individual, 	to	appear, 	at	a	private	 hearing, 	before 	the	Commission 	at	a	time	and	place	 specified 	in	the	notice 	to	give	any	such	evidence, 	either	 orally 	or	in	writing, 	and	produce 	any	such	documents,	 whether 	in	a	physical 	form	or	in	an	electronic 	media; (e) if	the	person 	is	a	body	corporate 	or	a	public 	body,	to	cause	 a	competent 	officer 	of	the	body	to	appear, 	at	a	private	 hearing, 	before 	the	Commission 	at	a	time	and	place	 specified 	in	the	notice 	to	give	any	such	evidence, 	either	 orally 	or	in	writing, 	and	produce 	any	such	documents,	 whether 	in	a	physical 	form	or	in	an	electronic 	media;	 or

60 Laws of Malaysia Act 588 (f) if	the	person 	is	a	partnership, 	to	cause	an	individual 	who	 is	a	partner 	in	the	partnership 	or	an	employee 	of	the	 partnership 	to	appear, 	at	a	private 	hearing, 	before 	the	 Commission 	at	a	time	and	place	specified 	in	the	notice	 to	give	any	such	evidence, 	either 	orally 	or	in	writing,	 and	produce 	any	such	documents, 	whether 	in	a	physical	 form	or	in	an	electronic 	media. 	 (3) 	The	Commission 	shall 	allow 	the	person 	so	directed 	under	 subsection 	(2)	a	reasonable 	time	to	give	and	to	produce 	any	 information 	and/or 	documents 	specified 	in	the	notice. 	 (4) 	Any 	person 	required 	to 	provide 	information 	under		 subsection 	(2)	shall 	ensure 	that 	the	information 	provided 	is	 true, 	accurate 	and	complete 	and	such 	person 	shall 	provide 	a	 representation 	to	that	effect, 	including 	a	representation 	that	he	 is	not	aware 	of	any	other	information 	which	would 	make	the	 information 	provided 	untrue 	or	misleading. Offence for non-compliance 74.	 Notwithstanding 	section 	53,	a	person 	who	fails	to	comply	 with	a	direction 	of	the	Commission 	under 	this	Chapter 	commits	 an	offence 	and	shall, 	on	conviction, 	be	liable 	to	a	fine 	not	 exceeding 	twenty 	thousand 	ringgit 	or	to	imprisonment 	for	a	term	 not	exceeding 	six	months 	or	to	both. Offence for giving false or misleading information, evidence or document, etc. 75.	 Notwithstanding 	section 	53,	a	person 	who	fails	to	disclose 	or	 omits 	to	give	any	relevant 	information 	or	evidence 	or	document,	 or	provides 	information 	or	evidence 	or	document 	that	he	knows	 or	has	reason 	to	believe 	is	false 	or	misleading, 	in	response 	to	a	 direction 	issued 	by	the	Commission 	commits 	an	offence 	and	shall,	 on	conviction, 	be	liable 	to	a	fine	not	exceeding 	twenty 	thousand	 ringgit. Proof of compliance 76.	(1)	A	person 	shall, 	if	at	any	time	called 	upon	in	writing 	by	 the	Commission 	to	do	so,	produce 	to	the	Commission 	all	such	 evidence 	and	provide 	all	such	information 	as	the	person 	may	have	

61Communications and Multimedia relati ng	to	his	compliance 	with	any	of	the	provisions 	of	this	Act	 or	its	subsidiary 	legislation, 	as	the	Commission 	may	generally,	 or	in	relation 	to	any	particular 	case,	require. 	 (2) 	Subsection 	(1)	shall 	not	affect 	any	other 	power 	conferred	 on	the	Commission 	under 	this	Act. Commission may retain documents 77.	(1)	The	Commission 	may	take, 	and	retain 	for	as	long	as	 is	necessary, 	possession 	of	a	document 	produced 	under 	this	 Chapter. 	 (2) 	The	person 	otherwise 	entitled 	to	possession 	of	the	document	 is	entitled 	to	be	supplied, 	as	soon	as	practicable, 	with	a	copy	 certified 	by	the	Commission 	to	be	a	true	copy. 	 (3) 	Notwithstanding 	the	provisions 	of	any	other 	written 	law,	 the	certified 	copy	shall 	be	received 	by	all	courts 	and	tribunals	 as	evidence 	as	if	it	were	the	original. 	 (4) 	Until	a	certified 	copy	is	supplied, 	the	Commission 	shall,	 at	such	times	and	places 	as	the	Commission 	thinks 	appropriate,	 permit 	the	person 	otherwise 	entitled 	to	possession 	of	the	document,	 or	a	person 	authorized 	by	that	person, 	to	inspect 	and	make	copies	 of,	or	take	extracts 	from, 	the	document. Incorrect record 78.	 A	person	shall	not,	in	purported 	compliance 	with	a	requirement	 imposed 	by	the	record-keeping 	rules	made	under 	section 	268,	 make	a	record 	of	any	matter 	or	thing 	in	such	manner 	that	it	does	 not	correctly 	record 	the	matter 	or	thing. Record of information 79.	(1)	The	Commission 	shall	maintain 	a	record	of	all	information,	 evidence 	or	documents 	received 	pursuant 	to	the	directions 	given	 under	subsection 	73(2). 	 (2) 	The	record	shall 	be	made	available 	to	the	public.

62 Laws of Malaysia Act 588 Publication of information 80.	(1)	The	Commission 	may	publish 	information 	received 	in	the	 course 	of	exercising 	its	powers 	and	functions 	under 	this	Chapter	 if	it	is	satisfied 	that	the	publication 	is	consistent 	with	the	objects	 of	this	Act. 	 (2) 	The	Commission 	shall 	consider 	the	commercial 	interest 	of	 the	parties 	to	whom	the	information 	relates 	before 	publishing 	the	 information. 	 (3) 	The	Commission 	shall 	not	publish 	any	information 	or	 any	part	of	any	information 	disclosed 	to	it	if	the	publication	 would— (a) disclose 	a	matter 	of	a	confidential 	character; (b) be	likely 	to	prejudice 	the	fair	trial	of	a	person; 	or (c) involve	the	unreasonable	disclosure	of	personal	information	 about	any	individual 	(including 	a	deceased 	person), but	the	Commission 	may	publish 	an	abstract 	relating 	to	such	 information 	provided 	that	the	particulars 	in	the	abstract 	shall 	not	 be	arranged 	in	any	way	which 	would	compromise 	or	prejudice	 the	person 	providing 	such	information. Chapter 	6 Register Register of all matters 81.	(1)	The	Commission 	shall	maintain 	a	register, 	in	both	physical	 form	and	electronic 	media, 	of	all	matters 	which	are	required 	to	 be	registered 	under 	this	Act	and	its	subsidiary 	legislation. 	 (2) 	A	person 	may,	on	payment 	of	the	charge 	(if	any)	to	be	 decided 	by	the	Commission— (a) inspect 	the	register; 	and (b) make	a	copy	of,	or	take	extracts	from,	the	register.

63Communications and Multimedia 	 (3) 	If	a	person 	requests 	that	a	copy	be	provided 	in	an	electronic	 media, 	the	Commission 	may	provide 	the	relevant 	information— (a) on	a	data	processing 	device; 	or (b) by	way	of	electronic 	transmission. Chapter 	7 Notification and Resolution of Disputes Disputes 82.	(1)	A	dispute 	between 	two	or	more	persons 	(“the	parties”)	 regarding 	any	matter 	under 	this	Act	or	its	subsidiary 	legislation	 shall 	first	be	attempted 	to	be	resolved 	by	negotiation 	between	 the	parties. 	 (2) 	If	one 	of	the 	parties 	to	the 	dispute 	has 	provided 	an	 undertaking 	which 	is	relevant 	to	the	subject-matter 	of	the	dispute	 and	the	undertaking 	has	been	registered 	by	the	Commission 	in	 accordance 	with	Chapter 	11	of	this	Part,	the	parties 	may	adopt	 the	conditions 	of	the	undertaking 	for	the	purposes 	of	resolving	 the	dispute. 	 (3) 	If	the	parties 	to	the	dispute 	cannot 	or	otherwise 	fail	to	reach	 an	agreement, 	and	no	relevant 	undertaking 	has	been	registered,	 or	if	one	of	the	parties 	to	the	dispute 	does	not	wish	to	adopt	the	 conditions 	of	the	undertaking, 	the	parties 	may	seek	resolution	 of	the	dispute 	by	the	Commission, 	if	this	Act	or	its	subsidiary	 legislation 	expressly 	provides 	for	such	resolution. Notification of a dispute 83.	 A	party	to	a	dispute 	may,	in	writing, 	notify 	the	Commission	 of	the	dispute. Commission to act only upon notification 84.	 Subject	to	section 	83,	the	Commission 	may	only	resolve	 a	dispute 	under 	this	Chapter 	if	it	is	notified 	in	writing 	of	the	 dispute.

64 Laws of Malaysia Act 588 Commission may publish guidelin es 85.	 The	Commission 	may	publish 	guidelines 	setting 	out	the	 principles 	and	procedures 	which 	it	may	take 	into 	account 	in	 resolving 	disputes 	or	a	class 	of	disputes 	under 	this	Chapter. Commission to decide notified dispute 86.	(1)	Upon	receipt 	of	the	notification 	of	the	dispute 	referred	 to	in	section 	83,	the	Commission 	shall, 	as	soon	as	practicable,	 convene 	to	decide 	the	dispute. 	 (2) 	The	Commission 	shall 	be	bound	under 	subsection 	(1)	to	 convene 	to	decide 	a	dispute 	if	it	is	satisfied 	that— (a) an	agreement 	will	not	be	reached, 	or	will	not	be	reached	 within 	a	reasonable 	time; (b) the	notification 	of	the	dispute 	is	not	trivial, 	frivolous 	or	 vexatious; 	and (c) the	resolution 	of	the	dispute 	would 	promote 	the	objects	 of	this	Act. 	 (3) 	Subject 	to	the	objects 	of	this	Act	and	any	guidelines 	issued	 by	the	Commission 	under 	this	Chapter, 	the	Commission 	may	 resolve 	the	dispute 	upon	such	terms 	and	conditions 	as	it	may	 deem	fit. Decision to be in writing 87.	(1)	The	terms 	and	conditions 	of	any	resolution 	of	a	dispute	 by	the	Commission 	under 	this	Chapter 	shall 	be	accompanied 	with	 reasons 	and	be	in	writing. 	 (2) 	The	Commission 	shall 	provide 	the	parties 	to	the	dispute	 with	a	copy	of	its	decision 	as	soon	as	practicable. 	 (3) 	The	decision 	of	the	Commission 	shall 	be	binding 	on	the	 parties. Register of decisions 88.	(1)	The	Commission 	shall 	register 	all	decisions 	it	makes	 under	this	Chapter, 	in	accordance 	with	Chapter 	6	of	this	Part.

65Communications and Multimedia 	 (2) 	The	register 	shall 	contain— (a) the	names	of	the	parties 	to	the	dispute; (b) a	general 	description 	of	the	matter 	pertaining 	to	the	 decision; 	and (c) the	date	of	the	decision, but	not	the	terms	and	conditions 	of	the	decision. Enforcement 89.	(1)	The	Commission 	may	direct 	a	party 	to	a	dispute 	to	abide	 by	the	decision 	of	the	Commission 	in	that	dispute. 	 (2) 	A	decision 	made	by	the	Commission 	under 	this	Chapter 	may	 be	enforced 	by	the	High	Court	as	if	the	decision 	is	a	judgment	 of	such 	Court 	provided 	that	a	certificate 	has	been	issued 	by	 the	Commission 	to	the	complainant 	for	leave	to	proceed 	to	the	 Court 	for	the	enforcement 	of	the	decision 	except 	in	the	case	of	 an	injunction. 	 (3) 	No	certificate 	is	required 	if	an	action 	is	taken 	by	the	 Commission 	under 	this	section. Chapter 	8 Registration of Agreements Application for the registration of agreements 90.	 The	parties 	to	a	written 	agreement 	shall 	apply 	to	the	 Commission 	for	the	registration 	of	the	agreement, 	if	this	Act	 requires 	such	registration. When the Commission shall register the agreement 91.	 The	Commission 	shall 	register 	the	written 	agreement 	if	the	 Commission 	is	satisfied 	that	the	agreement 	is	consistent 	with— (a) the	objects 	of	this	Act; (b) any	relevant 	instrument 	under 	this	Act;	and

66 Laws of Malaysia Act 588 (c) any	relevant 	provisions 	of	this	Act	or	its	subsidiary	 legislation. Effect of registration 92.	(1)	An	agreement, 	which	is	required 	to	be	registered 	under	this	 Act,	shall	only	be	valid 	and	enforceable 	upon	its	registration. 	 (2) 	The	Commission 	may	direct 	any	party 	to	a	registered	 agreement 	to	comply 	with	the	registered 	agreement. 	 (3) 	A	direction	made	by	the	Commission 	in	respect	of	a	registered	 agreement 	may	be	enforced 	by	the	High	Court 	as	if	the	direction	 is	a	judgment 	of	such	Court 	provided 	that	a	certificate 	has	been	 issued 	by	the	Commission 	to	the	complainant 	for	leave	to	proceed	 to	the	Court 	for	the	enforcement 	of	the	direction 	except 	in	the	 case	of	an	injunction. 	 (4) 	No	certificate 	is	required 	if	an	action 	is	taken 	by	the	 Commission 	under 	this	section. Content of the register of agreements 93.	(1)	The	Commission 	shall	maintain 	a	register 	of	all	agreements	 required 	to	be	registered 	under 	this 	Act, 	in	accordance 	with	 Chapter 	6	of	this	Part. 	 (2) 	The	register 	shall 	contain— (a) the	names	of	the	parties 	to	the	agreement; (b) a	general 	description 	of	the	matter 	pertaining 	to	the	 agreement; 	and	 (c) the	date	of	the	agreement, but	not	the	terms	and	conditions 	of	the	agreement. 	 (3) 	Notwithstanding 	subsections 	(1)	and	(2),	a	copy	of	the	 agreement 	shall	be	deposited 	with	the	Commission.

67Communications and Multimedia Chapter 	9 Voluntary Industry Codes Industry forum 94.	(1)	The	Commission 	may	designate 	an	industry 	body	to	be	 an	industry 	forum 	for	the	purposes 	of	this	Act	by	notifying 	that	 body	in	writing, 	if	the	Commission 	is	satisfied 	that— (a) the	membership 	of	the	body 	is	open 	to	all	relevant	 parties; (b) the	body	is	capable 	of	performing 	as	required 	under 	the	 relevant 	provisions 	of	this	Act;	and (c) the	body	has	a	written 	constitution. 	 (2) 	The	body	shall 	agree	in	writing 	to	be	an	industry 	forum	 before 	the	designation 	may	be	registered. 	 (3) 	The	Commission 	may	decide 	that	an	existing 	industry 	body	 that	was	previously 	designated 	under 	subsection 	(1)	to	be	an	 industry 	forum 	is	no	longer 	an	industry 	forum	for	the	purposes	 of	this	Act,	if	the	Commission 	is	satisfied 	that	the	body	no	longer	 meets 	the	requirements 	set	out	in	subsection 	(1). 	 (4) 	A	designation 	or	withdrawal 	of	designation 	under 	this	 section 	shall 	take	effect 	from	the	date	of	registration, 	or	a	later	 date	specified. Code by the industry forum 95.	(1)	An	industry 	forum 	may	prepare 	a	voluntary 	industry 	code	 dealing 	with	any	matter 	provided 	for	in	this	Act— (a) on	its	own	initiative; 	or (b) upon	request 	by	the	Commission. 	 (2) 	The	voluntary 	industry 	code	shall 	not	be	effective 	until	it	 is	registered 	by	the	Commission. 	 (3) 	The	Commission 	may	refuse 	registration 	of	the	voluntary	 industry 	code, 	under 	subsection 	(1),	if	the	Commission 	is	not	 satisfied 	that	sufficient 	opportunity 	for	public 	consultation 	has	

68 Laws of Malaysia Act 588 occurred 	in	the	development 	of	the	voluntary 	industry 	code	by	 the	industry 	forum. 	 (4) 	The	Commission 	shall 	register 	a	voluntary 	industry 	code	 if	it	is	consistent 	with— (a) the	objects 	of	this	Act; (b) any	relevant 	instrument 	under 	this	Act;	and (c) any	provisions 	of	this	Act	which 	are	relevant 	to	the	 particular 	matter 	or	activity. 	 (5) 	The	Commission 	shall 	either 	register 	or	refuse 	registration	 of	a	voluntary 	industry 	code. 	 (6) 	If	registration 	of	a	voluntary 	industry 	code	is	refused, 	then	 the	Commission 	shall 	notify 	the	relevant 	industry 	forum	of	its	 decision 	in	writing 	and	provide 	the	reasons 	for	it. 	 (7) 	If	the	Commission 	neither 	registers 	nor	refuses 	to	register	 a	voluntary 	industry 	code	within 	a	period 	of	thirty 	days	from	the	 date	that	the	voluntary 	industry 	code	was	submitted 	for	registration,	 the	Commission 	is	deemed 	to	have	refused 	the	registration 	of	 the	voluntary 	industry 	code	unless 	the	industry 	forum	receives 	a	 written 	notice 	of	registration 	of	the	voluntary 	industry 	code	after	 that	period. Commission may determine a voluntary industry code 96.	(1)	The	Commission 	may	determine 	a	voluntary 	industry	 code, 	in	accordance 	with	section 	55,	if— (a) a	voluntary 	industry 	code	is	not	developed 	under 	an	 applicable 	section 	of	this	Act;	and (b) the	Commission 	is	satisfied 	that	a	voluntary 	industry 	code	 is	unlikely 	to	be	developed 	by	the	relevant 	industry	 forum 	within 	a	reasonable 	time. 	 (2) 	The	voluntary 	industry 	code	formulated 	by	the	Commission	 under	subsection 	(1)	shall 	be	registered. 	 (3) 	The	voluntary 	industry 	code	shall 	only	take	effect 	upon	 registration.

69Communications and Multimedia Applicable voluntary industry code 97.	(1)	The	Commission 	shall 	ensure 	that 	there 	is	only 	one	 voluntary 	industry 	code 	in	operation 	that 	is	applicable 	to	a	 particular 	matter 	for	a	particular 	person 	or	class	of	persons 	at	a	 given 	time. 	 (2) 	If	there 	is	any	uncertainty 	or	ambiguity, 	a	person 	may	apply	 to	the	Commission 	for	its	opinion 	on	which	voluntary 	industry	 code	is	the	applicable 	code	in	relation 	to	the	circumstances 	of	 the	applicant. 	 (3) 	The	Commission 	shall 	provide 	its	opinion 	within 	thirty	 days	from	the	date	of	receipt 	of	the	application. 	 (4) 	The 	Commission 	shall 	take 	into 	account 	any 	relevant	 Ministerial 	guidelines 	and	any	relevant 	previous 	opinions. 	 (5) 	The	opinion 	shall 	be	binding 	on	the	Commission 	and	the	 applicant 	for	a	period 	of	three 	years 	from	the	date	that	the	opinion	 is	provided 	under 	subsection 	(3). 	 (6) 	The	Commission 	shall 	maintain 	a	register 	of	opinions	 provided 	under 	this	section, 	in	accordance 	with	Chapter 	6	of	this	 Part. 	 (7) 	Notwithstanding 	subsection 	(5), 	the 	Commission 	may	 withdraw 	an	opinion 	under 	this	section 	if	the	Commission 	is	 satisfied 	that	the	nature 	of	the	activity 	engaged 	in	by	the	applicant	 has	changed 	materially. Compliance with a registered voluntary industry code a legal defence 98. 	(1) 	Subject 	to	section 	99, 	compliance 	with 	a	registered	 voluntary 	industry 	code	shall 	not	be	mandatory. 	 (2) 	Compliance 	with	a	registered 	voluntary 	industry 	code	shall	 be	a	defence 	against 	any	prosecution, 	action 	or	proceeding 	of	any	 nature, 	whether 	in	a	court	or	otherwise, 	taken 	against 	a	person	 (who	is	subject 	to	the	voluntary 	industry 	code)	regarding 	a	matter	 dealt	with	in	that	code.

70 Laws of Malaysia Act 588 Directions to comply with a registered voluntary industry code 99.	 The	Commission 	may	direct 	a	person 	or	a	class	of	persons, 	in	 accordance 	with	section 	51,	to	comply 	with	a	registered 	voluntary	 industry 	code. Civil penalty for non-compliance 100.	(1)	Notwithstanding 	section 	53,	a	person 	who	fails	to	comply	 with	a	direction 	of	the	Commission 	that	the	person 	complies 	with	 any	provision 	of	a	voluntary 	industry 	code	shall 	be	liable 	to	pay	 to	the	Commission 	a	fine	not	exceeding 	two	hundred 	thousand	 ringgit. 	 (2) 	Notwithstanding 	the	provisions 	of	any	other 	written 	law,	 the	fine	payable 	under 	this	section 	may,	without 	prejudice 	to	any	 other	remedy 	or	sanction, 	be	recoverable 	as	a	civil	debt. Revocation of a code 101.	 The	Commission 	may	determine 	the	revocation 	of	a	voluntary	 industry 	code,	in	accordance 	with	section 	55,	if	it	is	satisfied 	that	 the	voluntary 	industry 	code	is	no	longer 	consistent 	with	all	the	 matters 	listed 	in	paragraphs 	95(4)(a), (b) and	(c). Submission of new voluntary industry code by an industry forum 102.	(1)	An	industry 	forum 	may	submit 	a	new	voluntary 	industry	 code 	to	replace 	an	existing 	voluntary 	industry 	code 	for	that	 industry. 	 (2) 	The	submission 	of	the	new	code	shall 	be	subject 	to	the	 provisions 	of	this	Chapter. 	 (3) 	If	an	industry 	forum 	submits 	a	new	voluntary 	industry	 code	to	the	Commission 	which 	deals 	with	the	same	matter 	as	an	 existing 	registered 	code, 	the	existing 	registered 	code	is	taken 	to	 be	invalid 	to	the	extent 	of	any	conflict 	with	the	new	code	at	the	 time	that	the	new	code	is	registered 	under 	section 	95.

71Communications and Multimedia Register o f current voluntary industry code 103.	 The	Commission 	shall 	maintain 	a	register 	of	all	current	 voluntary 	industry 	codes, 	in	accordance 	with	Chapter 	6	of	this	 Part. Chapter 	10 Mandatory Standards Determination of a mandatory standard 104.	(1)	The	Commission 	may	determine 	a	mandatory 	standard	 for	any	matter 	which 	may	be	the	subject 	matter 	of	a	voluntary	 industry 	code	if	the	Commission 	is	satisfied 	that	the	voluntary	 industry 	code	has	failed, 	and	will	continue 	to	fail,	to	promote	 industry 	conduct 	which 	is	consistent 	with— (a) the	objects 	of	this	Act; (b) any	relevant 	instrument 	under 	this	Act;	or (c) any	relevant 	provisions 	of	this	Act	or	its	subsidiary	 legislation. 	 (2) 	The	Commission 	shall 	determine 	a	mandatory 	standard	 if	it	is	subject 	to	a	direction 	from	the	Minister 	to	determine 	a	 mandatory 	standard 	in	place	of	a	voluntary 	industry 	code. 	 (3) 	A	Ministerial 	direction, 	to	determine 	a	mandatory 	standard,	 may	include 	reference 	to— (a) matters 	which 	shall 	be	dealt 	with 	in	the	mandatory	 standard; 	and (b) the	manner 	in	which 	those	matters 	are	to	be	dealt	with. 	 (4) 	The	determination 	of	the	Commission 	under 	this	section	 shall 	be	in	accordance 	with	section 	55. Mandatory standard to be consistent 105.	(1)	A	mandatory 	standard 	determined 	by	the	Commission	 under	this	Chapter 	shall 	be	consistent 	with— (a) the	objects 	of	this	Act;

72 Laws of Malaysia Act 588 (b) any	relevant 	instr ument 	under 	this	Act;	or (c) any	relevant 	provisions 	of	this	Act	or	its	subsidiary	 legislation. 	 (2) 	A	mandatory 	standard 	determined 	by	the	Commission 	under	 subsection 	(1)	shall 	specify 	the	class 	of	licensees 	who	are	subject	 to	the	mandatory 	standard. 	 (3) 	A	person 	subject 	to	a	mandatory 	standard 	shall 	comply	 with	the	mandatory 	standard. Modification, variation or revocation of a mandatory standard 106. 	(1) 	The 	Commission 	may 	determine 	the 	modification,	 variation 	or	revocation 	of	a	mandatory 	standard, 	in	accordance	 with	section 	55,	if	it	is	satisfied 	that	the	mandatory 	standard 	is	 no	longer 	consistent 	with	all	the	matters 	listed 	in	paragraphs	 105(1) (a),	(b) and	(c). 	 (2) 	Any	modification 	or	variation 	of	a	mandatory 	standard	 under	subsection 	(1)	shall 	be	deemed 	to	be	a	new	standard 	for	 the	purposes 	of	this	Chapter 	and	shall 	be	subject 	to	the	provisions	 of	this	Chapter. 	 (3) 	If	a	new	mandatory 	standard 	deals 	with	the	same	standard	 as	an	existing 	mandatory 	standard, 	then	the	existing 	standard 	is	 taken	to	be	invalid 	to	the	extent 	of	any	conflict 	with	the	new	 mandatory 	standard. Mandatory standard to take precedence 107.	 A	voluntary 	industry 	code, 	or	an	undertaking 	referred 	to	in	 Chapter 	11	of	this	Part,	is	invalid 	to	the	extent 	of	any	conflict	 with	a	mandatory 	standard. Compliance with a mandatory standard a legal defence 108.	 Compliance 	with	a	mandatory 	standard 	shall 	be	a	defence	 against 	any	prosecution, 	action 	or	proceeding 	of	any	nature,	 whether 	in	a	court	or	otherwise, 	taken	against 	a	person 	(who	is	 subject 	to	the	mandatory 	standard) 	regarding 	a	matter 	dealt	with	 in	that	mandatory 	standard.

73Communications and Multimedia Civil pen alty for non-compliance 109.	(1)	Notwithstanding 	section 	53,	a	person 	who	fails	to	comply	 with	a	direction 	of	the	Commission 	that	the	person 	complies 	with	 any	provision 	of	a	mandatory 	standard 	shall 	be	liable 	to	pay	 to	the	Commission 	a	fine	not	exceeding 	two	hundred 	thousand	 ringgit. 	 (2) 	Notwithstanding 	the	provisions 	of	any	other 	written 	law,	 the	fine	payable 	under 	this	section 	may,	without 	prejudice 	to	any	 other	remedy 	or	sanction, 	be	recoverable 	as	civil	debt. Chapter 	11 Undertakings Undertaking by a person 110.	(1)	A	person 	may	provide 	an	undertaking 	to	the	Commission	 regarding 	any	matter 	which 	may	be	the	subject 	of	a	voluntary	 industry 	code	under 	this	Act	or	for	which	this	Act	makes 	express	 provision. 	 (2) 	An	undertaking 	provided 	by	a	person 	under 	subsection 	(1)	 may— (a) set	out	the	terms	and	conditions 	for	the	undertaking; 	or (b) adopt	the	model 	terms 	and	conditions 	from	a	registered	 voluntary 	industry 	code, and 	the 	undertaking 	may 	include 	the 	effective 	date 	of	the	 undertaking 	and/or 	the	date	of	its	expiry. Registration of an undertaking 111.	(1)	An	undertaking 	provided 	under 	this	Chapter 	shall 	only	 be	valid 	and	enforceable 	upon	its	registration. 	 (2) 	A	person	may	submit	a	written	application 	to	the	Commission	 to	have	an	undertaking 	registered 	by	the	Commission.

74 Laws of Malaysia Act 588 	 (3) 	The	Commission 	shall 	register 	an	undertaking 	if	it	is	 satisfied 	that	the	undertaking— (a) is	consistent 	with	the	objects 	of	this	Act; (b) is	consistent 	with	any	instrument 	made	under 	this	Act; (c) is	consistent 	with	any	relevant 	provisions 	in	this	Act;	 and (d) will 	expire 	within 	three 	years 	from 	the	date 	of	the	 application 	to	register 	the	undertaking. 	 (4) 	Notwithstanding 	subsection 	(3), 	the 	Commission 	shall	 register 	an	undertaking 	if	the	undertaking— (a) solely	adopts	model	terms	and	conditions 	from	a	registered	 voluntary 	industry 	code;	and (b) will 	expire 	within 	three 	years 	from 	the	date 	of	the	 application 	to	register 	the	undertaking. 	 (5) 	The	Commission 	shall 	either 	register 	or	refuse 	to	register	 any	other	undertaking 	and	shall 	notify 	the	person 	providing 	the	 undertaking 	of	its	decision 	in	writing 	within 	thirty 	days	from	the	 date	of	receipt 	of	the	undertaking. 	 (6) 	The	Commission 	shall 	provide 	reasons 	for	refusing 	to	 register 	an	undertaking. 	 (7) 	If	the	Commission 	neither 	registers 	nor	refuses 	to	register	 an	undertaking 	within 	a	period 	of	thirty 	days	from	the	date	of	 receipt 	of	the	application, 	the	Commission 	is	deemed 	to	have	 refused 	the	registration 	of	the	undertaking 	unless 	the	person	 providing 	the	undertaking 	is	notified 	of	the	registration 	after	that	 period. 	 (8) 	An	undertaking 	provided 	under 	this 	Chapter 	shall 	only	 take	effect 	on	the	date	of	registration 	or	on	such	later	date	as	 the	undertaking 	may	specify. Rules regarding undertakings 112. (1)	The	Minister 	may	make	rules, 	to	be	published 	in	the	 Gazette ,	in	respect 	of	undertakings 	and	the	rules	shall 	bind	the	 party	making 	the	undertakings 	and	all	other 	persons 	relying 	on	

75Communications and Multimedia such	undertakings 	as	if	they	were	respectively 	signed 	by	each	 person 	and	contained 	agreements 	on	the	part	of	each	person 	for	 himself 	and	for	his	successors 	to	observe 	all	the	provisions 	of	 the	rules. 	 (2) 	The	Commission 	may	direct	a	person	referred	to	in	subsection	 (1)	to	comply 	with	the	rules 	made	under 	subsection 	(1)	and	any	 registered 	undertakings 	issued 	under 	this	Chapter. Withdrawal of an undertaking 113. A	person 	providing 	an	undertaking 	may 	withdraw 	the	 undertaking 	at 	any 	time 	by 	notifying 	the 	Commission 	in	 writing. Replacement of an undertaking 114. If	a	person 	submits 	to	the	Commission 	a	new	undertaking	 which 	deals 	with 	the 	same 	matter 	as	an	existing 	registered	 undertaking 	provided 	by	that 	person, 	the	existing 	registered	 undertaking 	is	taken	to	be	invalid 	to	the	extent 	of	any	conflict	 with	the	new	undertaking 	at	the	time	that	the	new	undertaking	 is	registered 	under 	section 	111. Register of undertakings 115. The	Commission 	shall 	maintain 	a	register 	of	all	existing	 undertakings, 	in	accordance 	with	Chapter 	6. Enforcement of an undertaking 116. (1)	Subject	to	subsection 	(2),	the	Commission 	or	a	person	may	 apply 	to	a	court	for	the	enforcement 	of	a	registered 	undertaking	 against 	the	person 	providing 	the	undertaking 	if	an	undertaking	 has	not	been	complied 	with. 	 (2) 	If	a	sum	of	money	is	payable 	by	any	person, 	or	where	 anything, 	other	than	the	payment 	of	money,	is	required 	to	be	 done	or	not	to	be	done	by	any	person 	because 	of	any	direction	 given 	by	the	Commission 	under	section 	112,	and	the	direction 	has	 not	been	complied 	with	by	the	person 	to	whom	it	is	addressed,	 then	the	direction 	shall, 	for	all	purposes, 	be	enforceable 	as	if	the	

76 Laws of Malaysia Act 588 direction 	is	a	judgement 	of	the	High	Court, 	in	accordance 	with	 such	rules 	of	court	as	may	be	applicable 	or	in	such	manner 	as	 the	Court 	may	deem	just	or	expedient 	provided 	that	a	certificate	 has	been	issued 	by	the	Commission 	to	the	complainant 	for	leave	 to	proceed 	to	the	Court 	for	the	enforcement 	of	a	registered	 undertaking 	except 	in	the	case	of	an	injunction. 	 (3) 	No	certificate 	is	required 	if	an	action 	is	taken 	by	the	 Commission 	under 	this	section. Chapter 	12 Regulatory Forbearance Regulatory forbearance 117. (1)	Notwithstanding 	anything 	contained 	in	this 	Act, 	the	 Minister 	may,	on	the	recommendation 	of	the	Commission, 	direct	 the	Commission 	to	forbear 	from	applying 	any	provision 	of	this	 Act	or	its	subsidiary 	legislation 	to	a	licensee 	or	class	of	licensees,	 or	to	a	person 	or	class 	of	persons, 	if	the	Minister 	determines	 that— (a) the	enforcement 	of	such	provision 	is	not	necessary 	to	 ensure 	the	achievement 	of	the	objects 	of	this	Act; (b) the	enforcement 	of	such	provision 	is	not	necessary 	for	 the	protection 	of	consumers; (c) the	forbearance 	from	applying 	such	provision 	is	consistent	 with	the	national 	interest; 	and (d) the	forbearance 	from	applying 	such	provision 	will	not	 impede 	the	administration 	of	this	Act. 	 (2)	The 	direction 	by	the	Minister 	shall 	be	made	in	accordance	 with	section 	7. Determination by the Minister 118. (1)	The	Minister 	shall 	consider 	the	written 	recommendation	 of	the	Commission 	before 	making 	a	determination, 	in	accordance	 with	section 	10,	to	forbear 	from	applying 	the	relevant 	provisions	 of	this	Act	or	its	subsidiary 	legislation.

77Communications and Multimedia 	 (2) 	The	Minister 	shall 	provide 	a	written 	notice 	as	soon	as	 practicable 	of	his	determination 	on	whether 	to	forbear 	from	 applying 	such	provision 	and	the	reasons 	for	his	determination. 	 (3)  If	the	Minister 	determines 	to	forbear 	from 	applying 	a	 provision 	of	this	Act	or	its	subsidiary 	legislation, 	the	Minister	 shall 	publish 	the	notice 	of	forbearance 	in	the	form	of	an	exemption	 order	in	the	Gazette. 	 (4)  An	exemption 	determined 	under 	subsection 	(3)	may	or	may	 not	be	subject 	to	any	conditions. Chapter 	13 Review of Decisions Review by the Commission 119. (1)	A	person 	who	is	aggrieved 	or	whose 	interest 	is	adversely	 affected 	by	any	decision 	of	the	Commission 	made	pursuant 	to	 the	performance 	of	its	powers 	and	functions 	under 	this	Act	or	its	 subsidiary 	legislation 	may	request 	in	writing 	to	the	Commission	 for	a	statement 	of	the	reasons 	for	the	decision. 	 (2) 	The	Commission 	shall, 	upon	such	written 	request, 	provide	 a	copy	of	a	statement 	of	reasons 	for	the	decision 	and	any	relevant	 information 	taken	into	account 	in	making 	the	decision 	within 	a	 period 	of	not	more	than	thirty 	days	from	the	date	of	receipt 	of	 the	request 	by	the	Commission. 	 (3) 	The	Commission 	is	not	required 	to	publish, 	or	to	disclose	 to	a	person 	to	whose	affairs 	it	relates, 	a	statement 	of	reasons 	or	 a	part	of	a	statement 	of	reasons 	if	the	publication 	or	disclosure	 would— (a) disclose 	a	matter 	of	a	confidential 	character; (b) be	likely 	to	prejudice 	the	fair	trial	of	a	person; 	or (c) involve	the	unreasonable	disclosure	of	personal	information	 about	any	individual 	(including 	a	deceased 	person). 	 (4) 	In	this	Chapter, 	“decision” 	includes 	any	action, 	order,	report	 or	delegated 	authority.

78 Laws of Malaysia Act 588 Review by the Appeal Tribunal 120. (1)	Subject 	to	subsection 	(2),	a	person 	who	is	aggrieved 	or	 whose	interest 	is	adversely 	affected 	by	a	decision 	or	direction	 (but	not	a	determination) 	of	the	Commission 	made	pursuant 	to	 the	performance 	of	its	powers 	and	functions 	under 	this	Act	or	 its	subsidiary 	legislation, 	may	appeal 	to	the	Appeal 	Tribunal 	for	 a	review 	of	the	merits 	and	the	process 	of	certain 	decisions 	or	 directions 	of	the	Commission, 	unless 	the	matter 	is	not	subject 	to	 an	appeal 	to	the	Appeal 	Tribunal. 	 (2) 	Subject 	to	subsection 	17(1), 	the	Minister 	may	determine 	the	 decisions 	or	directions 	of	the	Commission 	which	are	not	subject	 to	appeal 	to	the	Appeal 	Tribunal 	under 	subsection 	(1). Judicial review 121. (1)	A	person 	affected 	by	a	decision 	or	other 	action 	of	the	 Minister 	or	Commission 	may	apply 	to	the	court 	for	a	judicial	 review 	of	such	decision 	or	other	action. 	 (2) 	A	person 	shall 	not	apply	to	the	court 	for	a	judicial 	review	 unless 	that	person 	has	first	exhausted 	all	other 	remedies 	provided	 under	this	Act. Chapter 	14 Regulatory Review Review of subsidiary legislation by the Commission 122. (1)	The	Commission	shall	review	all	rules	and	regulations	made	 under	this	Act	that	are	in	effect 	at	the	time	of	the	review. 	 (2) 	A	review 	of	the	rules 	and	regulations 	shall 	be	conducted	 by	the	Commission— (a) every	three 	years; 	or (b) as	and	when	the	Minister 	so	directs 	under 	section 	7.

79Communications and Multimedia 	 (3) 	The	Commissi on	shall 	provide 	a	written 	recommendation	 to	the	Minister 	to	modify 	or	vary,	or	to	repeal, 	any	rules 	or	 regulations 	made	under 	this	Act— 	 (a)	 which	are	no	longer 	necessary 	in	the	national 	interest; 	 (b)	 which	are	no	longer 	necessary 	to	ensure 	the	objects 	of	 this	Act;	or 	 (c)	 for	any	other 	reason 	that 	the	Commission 	thinks 	is	 relevant. Chapter 	15 Monitoring and Reporting Report to the Minister on industry performance 123. (1)	The	Commission 	shall	monitor 	all	significant 	matters	 relating 	to	the	performance 	of	network 	facilities 	providers, 	network	 service 	providers, 	applications 	service 	providers 	and	content	 applications 	service 	providers 	and	report 	to	the	Minister 	at	the	 end	of	each	financial 	year. 	 (2) 	In	performing 	its 	functions 	under 	subsection 	(1), 	the	 Commission 	shall 	have 	regard 	to	such 	industry 	performance	 indicators 	as	the	Commission 	considers 	appropriate. Matters to monitor and report 124. Matters 	upon 	which 	the	Commission 	shall 	monitor 	and	 report 	include, 	but	are	not	limited 	to,	the	following: 	 (a)	 the	operation 	and	administration 	of	this 	Act	and	its	 subsidiary 	legislation; 	 (b)	 the	efficiency 	in	which 	licensees 	provide 	facilities 	and	 services; 	 (c)	 the	quality 	of	services; 	 (d)	 the	rates 	paid	by	consumers 	for	services; 	 (e)	 the	development 	of	industry 	self-regulation;

80 Laws of Malaysia Act 588 	 (f)	 the	level	of	compliance 	with	voluntary 	industry 	codes,	 mandatory 	standards 	and	undertakings; 	 (g)	 the	adequacy 	of	services 	and	availability 	of	services 	in	 all	parts 	of	Malaysia; 	 (h)	 any	deficiencies 	in	the	scope 	or	operation 	of	this	Act	and	 its	subsidiary 	legislation; 	and 	 (i)	 other	matters 	that 	the 	Commission 	is	satisfied 	are	 relevant. Report to be published 125. The	Commission 	shall 	publish 	the	report, 	in	the	manner 	it	 deems	appropriate, 	as	soon	as	practicable 	following 	the	date	on	 which 	the	Commission 	conveys 	the	report 	to	the	Minister. Part 	VI ECONOMIC 	REGULATION Chapter 	1 Licensing Licensing of network facilities, network services and applications services 126. (1)	Subject 	to	such	exemptions 	as	may	be	determined 	by	the	 Minister 	by	order	published 	in	the	 Gazette ,	no	person 	shall— (a) own	or	provide 	any	network 	facilities; (b) provide 	any	network 	services; 	or (c) provide 	any	applications 	services,	 except 	under	and	in	accordance 	with	the	terms	and	conditions	 of— (aa) a	valid 	individual 	licence 	granted 	under 	this	Act;	or (bb) a	class 	licence 	granted 	under 	this	Act, expressly 	authorizing 	the	ownership 	or	provision 	of	the	facilities	 or	services.

81Communications and Multimedia 	 (2) 	A	person 	who 	contravenes 	subsection 	(1) 	commits 	an	 offence 	and	shall, 	on	conviction, 	be	liable 	to	a	fine	not	exceeding	 five	hundred 	thousand 	ringgit 	or	to	imprisonment 	for	a	term	 not	exceeding 	five	years	or	to	both	and	shall 	also	be	liable 	to	a	 further 	fine	of	one	thousand 	ringgit 	for	every	day	or	part	of	a	 day	during 	which 	the	offence 	is	continued 	after	conviction. Compliance with licence conditions 127. (1)	The	relevant 	standard 	conditions 	of	a	licence 	under 	this	 Part	shall 	be	in	accordance 	with	the	Schedule. 	 (2) 	Any	special 	or	additional 	conditions 	of	a	licence 	may	be	 declared 	by	the	Minister 	and	included 	in	the	licence. 	 (3) 	A	licensee 	under 	this	Part	shall 	not	provide 	any	facility 	or	 service 	except 	in	accordance 	with	the	conditions 	of	the	licence	 granted 	to	that	licensee 	under	this	Part	or	the	conditions 	of	a	 class 	licence 	to	which 	the	licensee 	is	subject. Definition of network boundary 128. (1)	The	Minister 	may	determine 	the	network 	boundary 	for	 the	purposes 	of	this	Act. 	 (2) 	In	the	absence 	of	such	determination, 	the	network 	boundary	 shall 	be— (a) the	first	equipment 	socket 	in	a	private 	residence; (b) the	main	distribution 	frame	in	a	building; 	or (c) a	point	agreed	to	by	the	customer	and	the	network	facilities	 provider. 	 (3) 	The	ownership 	of	any	network 	facilities 	and	the	provision	 of	any	network 	services 	or	applications 	services, 	solely 	on	the	 customer 	side	of	the	network 	boundary, 	are	exempted 	from	the	 provisions 	of	this	Part. Exemption for applications service provider not subject to a class licence 129. An	applications 	service 	provider 	who	is	not	subject 	to	a	 class 	licence 	under 	section 	126	shall 	be	deemed 	to	be	exempted	

82 Laws of Malaysia Act 588 from	the	provisions 	of	this	Chapter, 	but	not	from	the	provisions	 of	Part	VII	regarding 	technical 	regulation. Nominated facilities provider 130. (1) 	The 	Minister 	may, 	on	the 	recommendation 	of	the	 Commission, 	determine 	that	a	licensed 	network 	facilities 	provider,	 other	than	the	owner 	of	any	network 	facilities, 	be	a	nominated	 facilities 	provider 	for	the	network 	facilities 	for	the	purposes 	of	 this	Act,	if	the	Minister 	is	satisfied 	that	the	nomination 	will	not	 impede— (a) the	achievement 	of	the	objects 	of	this	Act;	and (b) the	administration 	of	this	Act. 	 (2) 	Upon	the	determination 	of	the	nominated 	facilities 	provider	 under 	subsection 	(1), 	the	owner 	shall 	then 	be	deemed 	to	be	 exempted 	from	the	provisions 	of	this	Chapter. Providers under a class licence shall register 131. A	person 	shall 	not	operate 	under	a	class	licence 	in	respect	 of	any	network 	facilities 	or	network 	service 	or	applications 	service	 unless 	that	person 	is	registered 	by	the	Commission. Separate licence 132. A	licence 	obtained 	under 	this	Chapter 	does	not	exempt 	any	 person 	from	the	obligation 	to	obtain 	a	licence 	under 	any	other	 relevant 	section 	of	this	Act. Chapter 	2 General Competition Practices Prohibition on anticompetitive conduct 133. A	licensee 	shall 	not	engage 	in	any	conduct 	which	has	the	 purpose 	of	substantially 	lessening 	competition 	in	a	communications	 market.

83Communications and Multimedia Commission may publish guidelines 134. (1)	The	Commission 	may	publish 	guidelines 	which	clarify	 the	meaning 	of	“substantial 	lessening 	of	competition”. 	 (2) 	The	guidelines 	may	include 	reference 	to— (a) the	relevant 	economic 	market; (b) global 	trends 	in	the	relevant 	market; (c) the	impact 	of	the	conduct 	on	the	number 	of	competitors	 in	a	market 	and	their 	market 	shares; (d) the	impact 	of	the	conduct 	on	barriers 	to	entry 	into	the	 market; (e) the	impact 	of	the	conduct 	on	the	range	of	services 	in	the	 market; (f) the	impact 	of	the	conduct 	on	the	cost	and	profit 	structures	 in	the	market; 	and (g) any	other	matters 	which 	the	Commission 	is	satisfied 	are	 relevant. Prohibition on entering into collusive agreements 135. A	licensee 	shall 	not	enter 	into	any	understanding, 	agreement	 or	arrangement, 	whether 	legally 	enforceable 	or	not,	which	provides	 for— 	 (a)	 rate	fixing; 	 (b)	 market	sharing; 	 (c)	 boycott	of	a	supplier 	of	apparatus; 	or 	 (d)	 boycott	of	another 	competitor. Prohibition on tying or linking arrangements 136. A	licensee 	shall 	not,	at	any	time	or	in	any	circumstances,	 make	it	a	condition 	for	the	provision 	or	supply 	of	a	product 	or	 service 	in	a	communications 	market 	that	the	person 	acquiring 	such	 product 	or	service 	in	the	communications 	market 	is	also	required	 to	acquire 	or	not	to	acquire 	any	other 	product 	or	service 	either	 from	himself 	or	from	another 	person.

84 Laws of Malaysia Act 588 Determination of do minant licensee 137. The	Commission 	may	determine 	that 	a	licensee 	is	in	a	 dominant 	position 	in	a	communications 	market. Guidelines as to the meaning of “dominant position” 138. (1)	The	Commission 	may	publish 	guidelines 	which	clarify	 how	it	will	apply	the	test	of	“dominant 	position” 	to	a	licensee. 	 (2) 	The	guidelines	may	specify	the	matters	which	the	Commission	 may	take	into	account, 	including— (a) the	relevant 	economic 	market; (b) global	technology 	and	commercial 	trends	affecting 	market	 power; (c) the	market 	share	of	the	licensee; (d) the	licensee’s	power 	to	make	independent 	rate	setting	 decisions; (e) the	degree 	of	product 	or	service 	differentiation 	and	sales	 promotion 	in	the	market; 	and (f) any	other	matters 	which 	the	Commission 	is	satisfied 	are	 relevant. Commission may direct a licensee in a dominant position 139. (1)	The	Commission 	may	direct 	a	licensee 	in	a	dominant	 position 	in	a	communications 	market 	to	cease 	a	conduct 	in	that	 communications 	market 	which 	has,	or	may	have, 	the	effect 	of	 substantially 	lessening 	competition 	in	any	communications 	market,	 and	to	implement 	appropriate 	remedies. 	 (2) 	The 	Commission 	may 	only 	issue 	a	direction 	under	 	 subsection 	(1)	if	the	Commission 	is	satisfied 	that	the	direction	 is	consistent 	with— (a) the	objects 	of	this	Act;	and (b) any	relevant 	instrument 	under 	this	Act.

85Communications and Multimedia Authorization of a conduct 140. (1)	A	licensee 	may	apply 	to	the	Commission, 	prior 	to	 engaging 	into	any	conduct 	which	may	be	construed 	to	have	the	 purpose 	or	the	effect 	of	substantially 	lessening 	competition 	in	a	 communications 	market, 	for	authorization 	of	the	conduct. 	 (2) 	Notwithstanding 	the 	provisions 	of 	this 	Chapter, 	the	 Commission 	shall 	authorize 	the	conduct 	if	the	Commission 	is	 satisfied 	that	the	authorization 	is	in	the	national 	interest. 	 (3) 	Before	authorizing 	the	conduct, 	the	Commission 	may	require	 the	licensee 	to	submit 	an	undertaking 	regarding 	his	conduct 	in	 any	matter 	relevant 	to	the	authorization. 	 (4) 	If	the	licensee 	subsequently 	withdraws 	the	undertaking, 	the	 authorization 	shall 	be	deemed 	never	to	have	been	given	for	the	 purposes 	of	this	Chapter. 	 (5) 	A	licensee 	may 	withdraw 	an	application 	made 	under	 subsection 	(1)	at	any	time. Register of authorizations 141. The 	Commission 	shall 	maintain 	a	register 	of	current	 authorizations 	of	a	conduct 	under	this	Chapter 	in	accordance 	with	 Chapter 	6	of	Part	V. Remedies for non-compliance 142. (1)	The	Commission 	or	a	person 	may	seek	an	interim 	or	 interlocutory 	injunction 	against 	any	conduct 	prohibited 	in	this	 Chapter. 	 (2) 	A	person 	shall 	obtain 	a	certificate 	from	the	Commission 	for	 leave	to	proceed 	to	the	court	for	enforcement 	of	the	provisions	 of	this	Chapter 	except 	in	the	case	of	an	injunction. Penalty for offence 143. A	person 	who	contravenes 	any	prohibition 	under	this	Chapter	 commits 	an	offence 	and	shall, 	on	conviction, 	be	liable 	to	a	fine	 not	exceeding 	five	hundred 	thousand 	ringgit 	or	to	imprisonment	

86 Laws of Malaysia Act 588 for	a	term	not	exceeding 	five	years	or	to	both	and	shall 	also	be	 liable 	to	a	further 	fine	of	one	thousand 	ringgit 	for	every	day	 or	part	of	a	day	during 	which 	the	offence 	is	continued 	after	 conviction. Minister may make rules 144. (1)	Subject 	to	subsection 	(2),	the	Minister 	may	make	rules,	 to	be	published 	in	the	Gazette ,	in	respect 	of	agreements 	between	 licensees, 	under 	this	Act,	and	foreign 	network 	facilities 	providers	 and/or 	network 	service 	providers. 	 (2)	 The	Minister	shall	only	make	the	rules,	under	subsection	(1),	 which 	are	intended 	to	prevent 	or	mitigate— (a) any	conduct 	by	foreign 	network 	facilities 	providers 	and/	 or	network 	service 	providers 	which	will, 	or	is	likely	 to	lead	to,	a	substantial 	lessening 	of	competition 	in	a	 communications 	market; 	or (b) the 	misuse 	of	market 	power 	in	a	communications	 market. Chapter 	3 Access to Services Facilities and services which may be included in the access list 145. (1)	The	list	of	facilities 	and	services 	which	may	be	included	 in	the	access 	list,	as	determined 	by	the	Commission 	under 	this	 Chapter, 	are— (a) network 	facilities; (b) network 	services; 	and (c) other	facilities	and/or	services	which	facilitate	the	provision	 of	network 	services 	or	applications 	services, 	including	 content 	applications 	services. 	 (2) 	The	facilities 	or	services 	listed 	in	paragraph 	(1) (c) do	not	 have	to	be	owned	or	provided 	by	the	licensees 	under 	this	Act.

87Communications and Multimedia Determination of facilities and services by the Commission 146. Subject 	to	subsection 	147(2), 	the	Commission 	may	determine	 that— 	 (a)	 a	network 	facility; 	 (b)	 a	network 	service; 	or 	 (c)	 any	other	facilities 	and/or 	services 	which	facilitate 	the	 provision 	of	network 	services 	or	applications 	services,	 including 	content 	applications 	services, shall 	be	included 	in	or	removed 	from	the	access 	list. Recommendation by access forum 147. (1)	The	access 	forum 	may	recommend 	to	the	Commission	 that— 	 (a)	 a	network 	facility; 	 (b)	 a	network 	service; 	or 	 (c)	 any	other	facilities 	and/or 	services 	which	facilitate 	the	 provision 	of	network 	services 	or	applications 	services,	 including 	content 	applications 	services, shall 	be	included 	in	or	removed 	from	the	access 	list. 	 (2) 	The	Commission 	shall 	determine 	that	the	recommended	 network 	facilities 	or	class 	of	network 	facilities 	or	network 	service	 or	class 	of	network 	services 	be	included 	in	the	access 	list,	if	 it	is	satisfied 	that	the	access 	forum 	has	consulted 	with	persons	 who	have	an	interest 	in	the	recommendation, 	and	that	not	less	 than	nine-tenths 	of	the	members 	of	the	access 	forum	support 	the	 recommendation. 	 (3) 	Notwithstanding 	Chapter 	3	of	Part	V,	the	Commission 	is	 not	required 	to	conduct 	an	inquiry 	before 	making 	a	determination	 under	section 	55,	if	the	determination 	relates 	to	a	recommendation	 made	by	the	access 	forum 	under 	this	section 	but	nothing 	in	this	 section 	shall 	prevent 	the	Commission 	from	conducting 	an	inquiry	 if	it	deems	it	necessary.

88 Laws of Malaysia Act 588 Register of access list 148. The	Commission 	shall 	maintain 	a	register 	of— (a) network 	facilities; (b) network 	services; 	and (c) other	facilities 	and/or 	services 	which	facilitate 	the	supply	 of	network 	services 	or	applications 	services, 	including	 content 	applications 	services, included 	in	the	access 	list. Standard access obligations for facilities and services 149. (1)	Subject 	to	such	exemptions 	as	may	be	determined 	by	the	 Minister 	by	order	published 	in	the	 Gazette ,	a	network 	facilities	 provider 	and	a	network 	service 	provider 	shall 	provide 	access 	to	 their	network 	facilities 	or	network 	services 	listed 	in	the	access	 list	to	any	other— 	 (a)	 network	facilities 	provider; 	 (b)	 network	service 	provider; 	 (c)	 applications	service 	provider; 	or 	 (d)	 content	applications 	service 	provider,	 who	makes	a	written 	request 	for	access 	to	such	network 	facilities	 provider 	or	network 	service 	provider 	on	reasonable 	terms	and	 conditions. 	 (2) 	The	access 	provided 	by	one	provider 	(“the	first	provider”)	 to	another 	provider 	under 	subsection 	(1),	shall 	be— 	 (a)	 of	at	least	the	same	or	more	favourable 	technical 	standard	 and	quality 	as	the	technical 	standard 	and	quality 	provided	 on	the	first 	provider’s 	network 	facilities 	or	network	 services; 	and 	 (b)	 on	an	equitable 	and	a	non-discriminatory 	basis. 	 (3) 	A	person 	who 	contravenes 	subsection 	(1) 	commits 	an	 offence 	and	shall, 	on	conviction, 	be	liable 	to	a	fine	not	exceeding	 five	hundred 	thousand 	ringgit 	or	to	imprisonment 	for	a	term	not	 exceeding 	five	years	or	to	both.

89Communications and Multimedia Registratio n of access agreements 150. (1)	A	written 	access 	agreement 	for	the	provision 	of	listed	 network 	facilities 	or	network 	services 	shall 	be	registered 	with	 the	Commission 	in	accordance 	with	section 	91. 	 (2) 	No	written 	access 	agreement 	for	the	provision 	of	listed	 network 	facilities 	or	network 	services 	shall 	be	enforceable 	unless	 it	has	been	registered. Notification of access disputes 151.	(1)	A	party	to	a	dispute 	over	the	compliance 	with	the	standard	 access 	obligation 	under 	section 	149	may	notify 	the	Commission 	of	 the	dispute 	under 	Chapter 	7	of	Part	V. 	 (2) 	A	party	who	is	seeking 	to	exercise 	his	rights 	under	the	standard	 access 	obligations, 	or	a	party	who	has	notified 	the	Commission 	of	 the	dispute 	under 	subsection 	(1),	may,	at	any	time,	withdraw, 	in	 writing, 	the	notification. Access forum 152.	 The	Commission 	may	designate 	a	single 	industry 	body	to	be	 the	access 	forum 	for	the	purposes 	of	this	Part. Access code 153.	(1)	The	Commission 	shall	make	a	written 	request 	to	the	access	 forum 	to	prepare 	an	access 	code. 	 (2) 	An	access 	code	shall 	provide 	model 	terms	and	conditions 	for	 compliance 	with	the	standard 	access 	obligations. 	 (3) 	Matters 	which 	the	access 	code	may	address 	include 	but	are	 not	limited 	to— (a) the	time	frame 	and	procedures 	for	negotiations 	and	the	 concluding 	of	access 	agreements; (b) rate	methodologies; (c) protection 	of	intellectual 	property;

90 Laws of Malaysia Act 588 (d) protection 	of	commercial 	information; (e) provisioning 	of	facilities; 	and (f) sharing 	of	technical 	information. 	 (4) 	The	access	code	may	provide	for	different	terms	and	conditions	 for	the	different 	network 	facilities 	and	network 	services 	listed 	in	 the	access 	list. Registration of the access code 154.	 The	Commission 	shall 	not	register 	an	access 	code	unless 	it	is	 satisfied 	that	the	access 	code	is	consistent 	with	the	standard 	access	 obligations. Industry access undertakings 155.	(1)	A	licensee	may	provide	an	access	undertaking,	in	accordance	 with	section 	110. 	 (2) 	An	access 	undertaking 	may	specify 	more	than	one	set	of	 terms 	and	conditions 	for	access 	to	a	particular 	network 	facility 	or	 network 	service 	listed 	in	the	access 	list. Registration of an undertaking 156.	 The	Commission	shall	not	register	an	undertaking,	in	accordance	 with	its	general 	powers 	in	section 	111,	unless 	it	is	satisfied 	that	the	 undertaking 	is	consistent 	with	the	standard 	access 	obligations. Part 	VII TECHNICAL 	REGULATION Chapter 	1 Spectrum Assignment Prohibition on using spectrum without assignment 157.	(1)	Subject 	to	such	exemptions 	as	may	be	determined 	by	 the	Minister 	by	order	published 	in	the	Gazette ,	no	person 	shall	

91Communications and Multimedia intentionally 	use	any	part	of	the	spectrum 	to	provide 	a	network	 service 	unless— (a) the	person 	holds	a	spectrum 	assignment 	issued 	under 	this	 Part; (b) the	person 	holds	an	apparatus 	assignment 	issued 	under 	this	 Part; 	or (c) the	use	of	the	spectrum 	is	subject 	to	a	class	assignment	 issued 	by	the	Commission 	under 	this	Part. 	 (2)	A	person 	who	contravenes 	any	prohibition 	under 	this	Chapter	 commits 	an	offence 	and	shall, 	on	conviction, 	be	liable 	to	a	fine	not	 exceeding 	five	hundred 	thousand 	ringgit 	or	to	imprisonment 	for	a	 term	not	exceeding 	five	years	or	to	both. Power of the Minister to make regulations 158.	 The	Minister 	may	make	regulations 	in	relation 	to	any	matter	 under	this	Part. Issue of spectrum assignment 159.	(1)	The	Commission 	may	issue 	a	spectrum 	assignment 	which	 confers 	rights 	on	a	person 	to	use	one	or	more	specified 	frequency	 bands 	for	any	purpose 	consistent 	with	the	assignment 	conditions. 	 (2) 	A	spectrum 	assignment 	may	be	issued 	under 	this	section 	only	 when	the	relevant 	frequency 	bands 	for	spectrum 	assignment 	have	 been	determined 	by	the	Minister. Spectrum assignment to comply with spectrum plan 160.	 A	spectrum	assignment	shall	not	be	issued	unless	it	is	consistent	 with	the	spectrum 	plan. Reissue of spectrum assignment 161.	 Except	if	the	Commission 	decides 	that	it	is	in	the	national	 interest	that	a	spectrum	assignment	be	issued	to	the	existing	assignment	 holder, 	the	procedure 	for	the	reissue 	of	a	spectrum 	assignment 	shall	 be	in	accordance 	with	sections 	159	and	160.

92 Laws of Malaysia Act 588 Third party transfers 162.	 A	holder 	of	a	spectrum 	assignment 	may	transfer 	to	or	otherwise	 deal	with	any	or	all	of	the	rights 	assigned 	under 	section 	159	with	a	 third 	party	only	if	it	is	in	accordance 	with	the	provisions 	of	section	 163. Transfer rules 163.	(1)	The	Minister 	may	make	rules, 	to	be	published 	in	the	 Gazette ,	for	the	transfer 	of	the	rights 	of	the	holder 	of	the	spectrum	 assignment 	conferred 	by	the	spectrum 	assignment. 	 (2) 	The	Commission 	may	direct	a	holder	of	a	spectrum 	assignment	 to	comply 	with	any	rules 	made	under 	this	section. Issue of apparatus assignment 164.	(1)	The	Commission 	may	issue 	an	apparatus 	assignment	 which 	confers 	rights 	on	a	person 	to	use	the	spectrum 	to	operate 	a	 network 	facility 	of	a	specified 	kind	at	a	specified 	frequency 	or	in	 any	specified 	frequency 	band	or	bands. 	 (2) 	An	apparatus 	assignment 	issued 	under 	this	section 	may	be	 subject 	to	such	conditions 	as	the	Commission 	may	impose. Apparatus assignment to comply with spectrum plan 165.	 An	apparatus 	assignment 	shall 	not	be	issued 	unless 	it	is	 consistent 	with	the	spectrum 	plan	developed 	under 	this	Part. Situation where apparatus assignment shall not be issued 166.	 The	Commission 	shall 	not	issue	an	apparatus 	assignment	 for	the	use	of	a	spectrum 	that	has	been	determined 	for	spectrum	 assignments. Third party authorization 167.	(1)	A	holder 	of	an	apparatus 	assignment 	may	authorize 	a	 third 	party 	to	operate 	a	network 	facility 	which	is	the	subject 	of	an	 apparatus 	assignment.

93Communications and Multimedia 	 (2) 	The	regulat ions	made	by	the	Minister 	under 	section 	158	may	 provide 	for	the	third 	party	operation 	of	a	network 	facility 	which	is	 the	subject 	of	an	apparatus 	assignment 	by	persons 	authorized 	by	 the	holder 	of	the	apparatus 	assignment. Maximum term for an apparatus assignment 168.	 An	apparatus 	assignment 	shall 	not	be	valid 	for	a	period 	of	 more	than	five	years	from	its	date	of	issue. Class assignment 169.	(1)	The	Commission 	may	issue 	a	class	assignment 	which	 confers 	rights 	on	any	person 	to	use	any	frequency 	band	or	bands	 for	a	specified 	purpose. 	 (2) 	A	class 	assignment 	issued 	under 	this	section 	may	be	subject	 to	such	conditions 	as	the	Commission 	may	impose. Class assignment to comply with spectrum plan 170. A	class 	assignment 	shall 	not	be	issued 	unless 	it	is	consistent	 with	the	spectrum 	plan	developed 	under 	this	Part. Situation where class assignment shall not be issued 171.	 The	Commission 	shall 	not	issue 	a	class 	assignment 	that	 authorizes 	the	use	of	the	spectrum 	that	is	determined 	for	spectrum	 assignments. Spectrum plan 172.	(1)	The	Commission 	may	develop 	a	spectrum 	plan	in	respect	 of	any	part	or	all	of	the	spectrum. 	 (2) 	The	spectrum 	plan	shall 	be	made	available 	to	the	public	 (including 	in	an	electronic 	media) 	for	a	fee	to	be	decided 	by	the	 Commission. Contents of spectrum plan 173.	(1)	A	spectrum 	plan	shall	define 	how	the	spectrum 	shall 	be	 used	and	define 	the	methodolo gy	for	assignment 	and	reassignment	 of	the	spectrum.

94 Laws of Malaysia Act 588 	 (2)	The 	Com mission, 	in 	exercising 	the 	functions 	under		 subsection 	(1),	shall 	take	into	account— (a) the	objects 	of	the	Act; (b) the	impact 	of	the	spectrum 	plan	on	existing 	users; 	and (c) any	applicable 	international 	standards, 	conventions 	and	 agreements 	including, 	but	not	limited 	to,	the	International	 Telecommunication 	Union 	and	its	radio 	regulations 	as	 agreed 	to	and	adopted 	by	Malaysia. Preferential rights 174.	 The	Minister	may	determine	that	specified	spectrum	assignment	 and/or	apparatus 	assignment 	may	only	be	issued	to	particular 	persons	 or	classes 	of	persons 	who	satisfy 	such	conditions 	as	are	specified	 in	the	determination 	published 	in	the	Gazette . Dispute about interference 175. 	(1) 	The 	 Commission 	 may 	 resolve 	 disputes 	 about	 interference. 	 (2) 	The	resolution 	of	disputes 	under 	subsection 	(1)	shall 	comply	 with	Chapter 	7	of	Part	V. Minister may determine spectrum for spectrum assignment 176. 	(1) 	The 	Minister 	may, 	after 	taking 	into 	account 	the	 recommendation 	of	the	Commission, 	determine 	that	a	certain	 spectrum 	is	to	be	reallocated 	for	spectrum 	assignments. 	 (2) 	The	determination 	made	under 	subsection 	(1)	may	include	 limits 	on	the	amount 	of	spectrum 	available, 	either 	generally 	or	to	 particular 	persons 	or	classes 	of	persons. 	 (3) 	The	determination 	made	under	subsection 	(1)	shall	be	deemed	 to	include 	the	term	that	the	spectrum 	assignment 	shall 	not	exceed	 twenty 	years.

95Communications and Multimedia Spectrum plan to include procedures for spectrum assignment and apparatus assignment 177.	 The 	spectrum 	plan 	may 	include 	procedures 	for 	the		 assignment 	of	spectrum 	assignments 	and	apparatus 	assignments	 such	as,	but	is	not	limited 	to,	the	following: (a) procedures 	for	the	assignment 	of	spectrum 	assignments 	and	 apparatus 	assignments 	by	auction; (b) procedures 	for	the	assignment 	of	spectrum 	assignments 	and	 apparatus 	assignments 	by	tender; (c) procedures 	for	the	assignment 	of	spectrum 	assignments 	at	 a	fixed	price 	to	be	determined 	by	the	Minister; (d) procedures 	for	the	assignment 	of	apparatus 	assignments 	at	a	 fixed	price 	to	be	determined 	by	the	Commission; 	and/or (e) a	conversion	plan	for	the	conversion	of	designated	apparatus	 assignments 	into	spectrum 	assignments. Compulsory acquisition of assignments in determined spectrum 178.	(1)	The	Minister 	may	direct 	the	Commission 	to	develop	 procedures 	for	the	compulsory 	acquisition 	by	the	Commission 	of	 assignments 	in	a	determined 	spectrum. 	 (2) 	The	Commission 	may	recommend 	to	the	Minister 	that	 assignments 	in	a	determined 	spectrum 	be	compulsorily 	acquired	 by	the	Commission 	in	accordance 	with	a	reassignment 	of	spectrum	 consistent 	with	the	spectrum 	plan. 	 (3) 	The	Minister	may,	after	taking	into	account	the	recommendation	 of	the	Commission 	under 	subsection 	(2),	direct 	that	assignments	 in	a	determined 	spectrum 	be	compulsorily 	acquired 	by	the	 Commission. 	 (4) 	The	Commission	may	pay	a	reasonable	amount	of	compensation	 to	the	holder 	of	an	assignment 	whose 	assignment 	has	been	acquired	 prior 	to	its	expiry,	by	a	direction 	made	under 	this	section. 	 (5) 	No	compensation 	may	be	payable 	if	an	assignment 	is	not	 renewed.

96 Laws of Malaysia Act 588 Chapter 	2 Numbering and Electronic Addressing Control, planning and administration of numbering and electronic addressing 179.	(1)	The	Commission 	shall	be	vested	with	the	control, 	planning,	 administration, 	management 	and	assignment 	of	the	numbering	 and	electronic 	addressing 	of	network 	services 	and	applications	 services. 	 (2) 	The	Commission 	may	delegate 	any	or	all	of	its	functions	 under	this	Chapter. Numbering and electronic addressing plan 180.	(1)	The	Commission 	shall	develop 	a	numbering 	and	electronic	 addressing 	plan	for	the	numbering 	and	electronic 	addressing 	of	 network 	services 	and	applications 	services. 	 (2) 	The	numbering 	and	electronic 	addressing 	plan	may	set	out	 rules 	which 	include, 	but	are	not	limited 	to— (a) the	use	of	different 	numbers 	and	electronic 	addresses 	for	 different 	kinds	of	services; (b) the	assignment 	of	numbers 	and	electronic 	addresses; (c) the	transfer 	of	assigned 	numbers 	and	addresses; (d) the	use	of	assigned 	numbers 	and	electronic 	addresses; (e) the 	portability 	of	assigned 	numbers 	and 	electronic	 addresses; (f) the 	requirements 	for 	network 	service 	providers 	and	 applications 	service 	providers 	to	maintain 	a	plan	for	 assigning 	and 	reassigning 	numbers 	and 	electronic	 addresses; 	and (g) the	rates 	for	the	assignment 	and	transfer 	of	numbers	 and	electronic 	addresses 	which 	may	be	imposed 	by	the	 Commission. 	 (3) 	The	Commission 	shall 	make	the	numbering 	and	electronic	 addressing 	plan	available 	to	the	public 	for	a	fee	to	be	decided 	by	 the	Commission.

97Communications and Multimedia Management or maintenance of an integrated public number or electro nic address database 181.	(1)	The	Commission 	may	appoint 	a	specified 	person	to	manage	 or	maintain 	an	integrated 	public 	number 	database 	or	an	integrated	 electronic 	address 	database. 	 (2) 	A	person 	specified 	under	subsection 	(1)	shall 	provide 	non- discriminatory 	commercial 	access 	to	the	database 	on	the	same	terms	 and	conditions 	which 	it	offers 	to	itself. 	 (3) 	The 	Commission 	may 	direct 	a	person 	specified 	under		 subsection 	(1)	regarding 	the	manner 	in	which	he	will	discharge 	his	 obligation 	under 	subsection 	(2). Chapter 	3 Technical Standards Hindering interoperability an offence 182.	 A	person 	who	uses	any	technical 	equipment 	or	systems 	which	 hinder 	network 	interoperability 	commits 	an	offence 	and	shall, 	on	 conviction, 	be	liable 	to	a	fine	not	exceeding 	five	hundred 	thousand	 ringgit 	or	to	imprisonment 	for	a	term	not	exceeding 	five	years	or	 to	both. Compromising public safety an offence 183.	 A 	person 	who	uses	any	technical 	equipment 	or	systems	 which 	compromise 	public 	safety 	commits 	an	offence 	and	shall, 	on	 conviction, 	be	liable 	to	a	fine	not	exceeding 	five	hundred 	thousand	 ringgit 	or	to	imprisonment 	for	a	term	not	exceeding 	five	years	or	 to	both. Technical standards forum 184.	 The 	Commission 	may	designate 	an	industry 	body	to	be	a	 forum 	for	technical 	standards 	(“technical 	standards 	forum”)	for	the	 purposes 	of	this	Part.

98 Laws of Malaysia Act 588 Matters for technical code 185.	(1)	A	technical 	code	prepared 	by	the	technical 	standards	 forum 	or	the	Commission 	under 	this	section 	shall 	include, 	but	is	 not	limited 	to,	the	following: (a) requirements 	for	network	interoperability,	including,	but	not	 limited	to,	the	provision 	of	certain	network	capabilities 	such	 as	calling 	line	identification 	capability 	and	pre-selection	 capability; 	and (b) the	promotion 	of	safety 	of	network 	facilities. 	 (2) 	A	technical 	code 	prepared 	by	the	technical 	standards	 forum 	or	the	Commission 	under 	this	section 	may	include, 	but	is	 not	limited 	to,	the	following: (a) the	provision 	of	network	facilities, 	including 	requirements	 for	qualified 	providers 	and	installers; (b) the	provision 	of	network 	services, 	including 	requirements	 for	qualified 	providers; (c) the	provision	of	applications	services,	including	requirements	 for	qualified 	providers; (d) the	provisions	of	customer	equipment	and	cabling,	including	 requirements 	for	qualified 	installers; (e) the	approval 	of	customer 	equipment 	and	other 	access	 devices; (f) the	adoption 	of	technical 	standards 	promulgated 	by	 international 	bodies; 	and (g) the 	promotion 	of 	electromagnetic 	immunity 	and	 compatibility. Certifying agencies 186. (1)	The	Commission 	may	register 	certifying 	agencies 	or	 classes 	of	certifying 	agencies, 	including 	agencies 	outside 	Malaysia,	 for	the	purposes 	of	certifying 	compliance 	with	codes 	or	standards	 under	this	Part. 	 (2)	An 	approval 	by	a	registered 	certifying 	agency 	shall 	be	 deemed 	to	be	an	approval 	by	the	Commission 	for	the	purposes	 of	this	Chapter.

99Communications and Multimedia Part 	VIII CONSUMER 	PROTECTION Cha Pter 	1 Quality of Service Exemption from offence provisions 187. A	network 	facilities 	provider, 	network 	service 	provider,	 applications 	service 	provider 	or	content 	applications 	service	 provider 	who	is	not	required 	to	have	an	individual 	licence, 	and	 is	not	subject 	to	class 	licence, 	under 	Part	VI	and	IX,	is	deemed	 to	have	been	exempted 	from	the	offence 	provisions 	of	section	 188. Provision of network service or applications service 188. (1)	Any	network 	facilities 	provider,	network 	service	provider,	 applications 	service 	provider 	or	content 	applications 	service	 provider 	shall— (a) deal	reasonably 	with	consumers; 	and (b) adequately 	address 	consumer 	complaints. 	 (2) 	A	network 	facilities 	provider, 	network 	service 	provider,	 applications 	service 	provider 	or	content 	applications 	service	 provider 	who	contravenes 	subsection 	(1)	 	commits 	an	offence	 and	shall, 	on	conviction, 	be	liable 	to	a	fine	not	exceeding 	twenty	 thousand 	ringgit 	or	to	imprisonment 	for	a	term	not	exceeding 	six	 months 	or	to	both. Consumer forum 189. The	Commission 	may	designate 	an	industry 	body	to	be	a	 consumer 	forum 	for	the	purposes 	of	this	Chapter. Matters for co nsumer code 190. (1)	A	consumer 	code	prepared 	by	a	consumer 	forum	or	the	 Commission 	shall 	include 	model 	procedures 	for— (a) reasonably 	meeting 	consumer 	requirements;

100 Laws of Malaysia Act 588 (b) the	handling	of	customer	complaints	and	disputes	including	 an	inexpensive 	arbitration 	process 	other 	than	a	court,	 and	procedures 	for	the	compensation 	of	customers 	in	 case	of	a	breach 	of	a	consumer 	code; 	and/or (c) the	protection 	of	consumer 	information. 	 (2)	The 	matters 	which 	the	consumer 	code	may	address 	may	 include, 	but	are	not	limited 	to— (a) the	provision 	of	information 	to	customers 	regarding	 services, 	rates 	and	performance; (b) the	provisioning 	and	fault 	repair 	of	services; (c) the	advertising 	or	representation 	of	services; (d) customer 	charging, 	billing, 	collection 	and	credit	practices;	 and (e) any	other	matter 	of	concern 	to	consumers. Publication of consumer code 191. After	the	preparation 	of	a	consumer 	code, 	the	consumer	 code	shall 	be	published 	and	notice 	of	it	shall 	be	advertised 	in	at	 least	one	national 	language 	and	one	English 	language 	national	 daily 	newspapers 	for	at	least 	three 	consecutive 	days. Chapter 	2 Required Applications Services Required applications services 192. (1)	For	the	purposes 	of	this	Part,	the	Minister 	may	determine	 a	list	of	required 	applications 	services. 	 (2) 	The	list	referred 	to	in	subsection 	(1)	may	include, 	but	is	 not	limited 	to— (a) emergency 	services 	(including 	access 	to	controlled	 network 	facilities 	and	network 	services 	for	the	purposes	 of	providing 	emergency 	services);

101Communications and Multimedia (b) directory	assistance	services	(including	access	to	controlled	 network 	facilities, 	network 	services 	and 	relevant	 databases); (c) operator 	assistance 	services; 	and (d) services 	for	disabled 	consumers. Minister’s direction to provide required application service 193. (1)	The	Minister 	may	determine— (a) the	classes 	of	applications 	service 	providers 	who	shall	 undertake 	any	or	all	of	the	applications 	services 	on	the	 list	of	required 	applications 	services; 	or (b) the	classes 	of	network 	service 	providers 	who	shall 	enable	 the	provision 	of	any	or	all	of	the	applications 	services	 on	the	list	of	required 	applications 	services. 	 (2)	The 	Commission 	shall 	direct— (a) the	class	of	applications	service	providers	determined	under	 paragraph 	(1)(a) to	provide 	the	required 	applications	 services; 	and (b) the	class 	of	network 	service 	providers 	determined 	under	 paragraph 	(1)(b) to	enable 	the	provision 	of	the	required	 applications 	services. Direction may specify operational details 194. Notwithstanding 	any	provision 	to	the	contrary 	in	this	Act	or	 any	instrument 	made,	issued 	or	given	under 	this	Act,	a	direction	 by	the	Commission 	issued 	under 	section 	193	may	provide 	for	 or	specify 	operational 	details 	relating 	to	a	required 	applications	 service. Chapter 	3 Resolution of Consumer Disputes Disputes between consumers and licensees 195. The	Commissi on	may	use	any	of	its	powers 	under 	this	 Act	in	the	resolution 	of	complaints 	received 	from	consumers 	in	

102 Laws of Malaysia Act 588 relation to matters of customer service and consumer protection including, but not limited to, the failure by a licensee to comply with a consumer code prepared under this Part. Procedures for consumer complaints 196. The Commission shall establish procedures or guidelines for the making, receipt and handling of complaints of consumers regarding the conduct or operation of licensees. Chapter 4 Rate Regulation Rate setting by providers 197. (1) Except as otherwise provided in this Chapter, any network facilities provider, network service provider, applications service provider or content applications service provider may set rates in accordance with the market rates. (2) All of the providers mentioned in subsection (1) are required to publish the rates charged to customers for one or more services. (3) For the purposes of this Chapter, “network facilities provider” includes a nominated facilities provider. Principles on rate setting 198. The rates established by a provider mentioned in subsection 197(1) shall be on the basis of the following principles: (a) rates must be fair and, for similarly situated persons, not unreasonably discriminatory; (b) rates should be oriented toward costs and, in general, cross-subsidies should be eliminated; (c) rates should not contain discounts that unreasonably prejudice the competitive opportunities of other providers; (d) rates should be structured and levels set to attract investment into the communications and multimedia industry; and

103Communications and Multimedia (e) rates should take account of the regulations and recommendations of the international organizations of which Malaysia is a member. Rate setting by the Minister 199. Notwithstanding section 197, the Minister may, on the recommendation of the Commission, intervene freely or frequently in determining and setting the rates for any competitive facilities or services provided by a provider mentioned in subsection 197(1) for good cause, or as the public interest may require. Power of the Minister to determine persons or areas for special rates 200. In the following cases, the Minister may, on the recommendation of the Commission, determine special rate regulation regimes, which may include setting, reviewing and approving rates, or forbearing from the regulation of rates— (a) where the rates are not set in accordance with the principles in section 198; or (b) in respect of the facilities or services provided by a provider mentioned in subsection 197(1), for a particular group of persons or in a particular area. Rules regarding rates 201. (1) The Minister may make rules, to be published in the Gazette , to prescribe the level of rates to be charged for specified or classes of network facilities, network services, applications services or content applications services. (2) The rules which may be made by the Minister under subsection (1) may include, but are not limited to— (a) rules about the rates and variation of rates for specified or classes of network facilities, network services, applications services or content applications services; (b) rules about the publication or disclosure of rates for specified or classes o f network facilities, network services, applications services or content applications services; or

104 Laws of Malaysia Act 588 (c) rate control mechanisms applied to specified licensees or classes of licensees, o r specified or classes of network facilities, network services, applications services or content applications services. Chapter 5 Universal Service Provision System of universal service provision 202. (1) The Minister may direct the Commission to determine a system to promote the widespread availability and usage of network services and/or applications services throughout Malaysia by encouraging the installation of network facilities and the provision for network services and/or applications services in underserved areas or for underserved groups within the community. (2) The Minister may make regulations under section 16 for the implementation of subsection (1). Definition of “underserved areas” and “underserved groups within the community”, etc. 203. (1) A determination by the Commission under subsection 202(1) shall include definitions of “underserved areas” and “underserved groups within the community”. (2) In determining the definition of “underserved areas”, the Commission may have regard to— (a) the level of competition in particular areas or places; (b) the availability of services in particular areas or places; and/or (c) the commercial viability of installing network facilities or providing network services or applications services in particular areas or places. (3) In determining the definition of “underserved groups within the community”, the Commission may have regard to— (a) the availability of services to such groups; and/or

105Communications and Multimedia (b) any barriers to the use of available services. Universal Service Provision Fund 204. (1) For the purposes of this Act, a fund to be known as the “Universal Service Provision Fund” (“USP Fund”) is established and it shall be controlled and operated by the Commission. (2) The Minister may make regulations regarding contributions by licensees, under this Act, or by any other person to the USP Fund and any other matters related to or incidental to the establishment and operation of the USP Fund. Part IX SOCIAL REGULATION Chapter 1 Licensing Prohibition on the provision of content applications service 205. (1) Subject to such exemptions as may be determined by the Minister by order published in the Gazette , no person may provide a content applications service unless— (a) the person holds a valid individual licence granted under this Part to provide the content applications service; or (b) the content applications service is subject to a valid class licence under this Part. (2) A licence obtained under this section does not exempt any person from the obligation to obtain a licence under any other relevant section of this Act. (3) A person who contravenes subsection (1) commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding five hundred thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding five years or to both and shall also be liable to a further fine of one thousand ringgit for every day or part of a day during which the offence is continued after conviction.

106 Laws of Malaysia Act 588 Compliance with licence condition s 206. (1) The relevant standard conditions of every licence, granted under this Part, shall be in accordance with the Schedule. (2) Any special or additional conditions of a licence may be declared by the Minister and included in the licence. (3) A content applications service provider shall not provide any service except in accordance with the conditions of the licence granted to that licensee under this Chapter or the conditions of a class licence to which such content applications service provider is subject. Closed content applications service 207. (1) The Minister may determine the definition of a “closed content applications service” for the purposes of this Act. (2) In the absence of such determination, a closed content applications service shall be— (a) a content applications service confined to a single dwelling; or (b) a content applications service provided only to the employees or officers of a single body corporate. (3) The provision of any closed content applications service shall be exempt from the provisions of this Part. Exemptions for incidental content 208. (1) An applications service provider is exempted from the provisions under section 205 to the extent that the content in question is content incidental to the service provided. (2) For the purposes of this section, the Minister may determine guidelines to clarify the meaning of “content incidental to the service provided” (“incidental content”) and all matters related to it.

107Communications and Multimedia (3) The guidelines determined by the Minister shall be published by the Commission , in the manner it deems appropriate, and shall be registered in the register as soon as practicable. Limited content applications service 209. (1) A person providing a limited content applications service is not required to hold an individual licence but he may be subject to a class licence. (2) A limited content applications service provider to which no class licence applies shall be deemed to be exempted from all the provisions under this Part. (3) For the purposes of this section, the Minister may determine guidelines which clarify or add to the criteria used in defining the term “limited content applications service” and all matters related to it. (4) The guidelines determined by the Minister shall be published by the Commission, in the manner it deems appropriate, and shall be registered in the register as soon as practicable. Opinion on category of service 210. (1) A person may apply to the Commission to decide whether a content applications service is considered a limited content applications service or whether the content is incidental content. (2) The Commission shall provide its opinion within thirty days from the date of receipt of the application. (3) The Commission shall take into account any relevant Ministerial guidelines and any previous opinions given under this Chapter before giving its opinion. (4) The opinion shall be binding on the Commission and all affected parties for a period of three years from the date that the opinion is provided under subsection (2). (5) Notwithstanding subsection (4), the Commission may withdraw an opinion if it is satisfied that the nature of the service has changed materially.

108 Laws of Malaysia Act 588 (6) The Commission s hall maintain a register of opinions in accordance with Chapter 6 of Part V. Chapter 2 Content Requirements Prohibition on provision of offensive content 211. (1) No content applications service provider, or other person using a content applications service, shall provide content which is indecent, obscene, false, menacing, or offensive in character with intent to annoy, abuse, threaten or harass any person. (2) A person who contravenes subsection (1) commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding fifty thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding one year or to both and shall also be liable to a further fine of one thousand ringgit for every day or part of a day during which the offence is continued after conviction. Content forum 212. The Commission may designate an industry body to be a content forum for the purposes of this Part. Content code 213. (1) A content code prepared by the content forum or the Commission shall include model procedures for dealing with offensive or indecent content. (2) The matters which the code may address may include, but are not limited to— (a) the restrictions on the provision of unsuitable content; (b) the methods of classifying content; (c) the procedures for handling public complaints and for reporting information about complaints to the Commission;

109Communications and Multimedia (d) the representation of Malaysian culture and national identity; (e) public information and education regarding content regulation and technologies for the end user control of content; and (f) other matters of concern to the community. Part X GENERAL Chapter 1 Installation of Network Facilities, Access to Network Facilities, etc. Inspection of land 214. A network facilities provider may, for the purposes of determining whether any land is suitable for his purpose of installing, or obtaining access to, network facilities— (a) enter on, and inspect, the land; and (b) do anything on the land that is necessary or desirable for that purpose, including making surveys, taking levels, sinking bores, taking samples, digging pits and examining the soil. Installation of network facilities 215. (1) A network facilities provider may, for purposes connected with the provision of network services, carry out the installation of network facilities if— (a) the provider is authorized to do so by a network facilities installation permit issued by the Commission under section 226; (b) the network facilities are low-impact network facilities; (c) the network facilities are temporary network facilities for use by, or on behalf of, the Ministry of Defence for defence purposes; or

110 Laws of Malaysia Act 588 (d) the installation is carrie d out for the sole purpose of connecting a building or structure, or a line that forms part of a network facility. (2) The installation of the network facilities authorized by this section may require the approval of the State Authority, local authority, or other relevant authority, if necessary. (3) If subsection (1) authorizes a network facilities provider to carry out a particular activity, the provider may, for purposes in connection with the carrying out of that activity— (a) enter on, and occupy, any land; and (b) on, over or under the land, do anything necessary or desirable for those purposes, including— (i) constructing, erecting and placing any post or network facility; (ii) felling and lopping trees and clearing and removing other vegetation and undergrowth; (iii) making cuttings and excavations; (iv) restoring the surface of the land and, for that purpose, removing and disposing of soil, vegetation and other material; (v) erecting temporary workshops and sheds and other temporary buildings; and (vi) levelling the surface of the land and making roads. (4) For the purposes of subsection (1), the Minister may, on the recommendation of the Commission, determine that specified network facilities are low-impact network facilities. Minimal damage 216. In engaging in an activity under this Chapter, a network facilities provider shall take all reasonable steps to ensure that he causes as little detriment and inconvenience, and does as little damage, as is pra cticable.

111Communications and Multimedia Network facilities provider to restore land 217. If a network facilities provider engages in an activity under this Chapter in relation to any land, the provider shall take all reasonable steps to restore the land to a condition that is similar to its condition before the activity began. Management of activity 218. A network facilities provider shall, in connection with carrying out an activity covered by this Chapter, take all reasonable steps— (a) to act in accordance with good engineering practice; (b) to protect the safety of persons and property; (c) to ensure that the activity interferes as little as practicable with— (i) the operations of a public utility; (ii) public roads and paths; (iii) the movement of traffic; and (iv) the use of land; and (d) to protect the environment. Agreement with public utility 219. (1) A network facilities provider shall take all reasonable efforts to enter into an agreement with a public utility that makes provision for the manner in which the provider will engage in an activity that is— (a) covered by this Chapter; and (b) likely to affect the operations of the utility. (2) A network facilities provider shall comply with an agreement in force under subsection(1).

112 Laws of Malaysia Act 588 Conditions to which a netw ork facilities installation permit is subject 220. If— (a) a network facilities provider engages, or proposes to engage, in an activity covered by this Chapter; (b) that activity is or will be authorized by a network facilities installation permit; and (c) the network facilities installation permit is subject to one or more conditions, the network facilities provider shall comply with those conditions. Notice to owner of land 221. (1) Before engaging in an activity under this Chapter in relation to any land, a network facilities provider shall give written notice of his intention to do so— (a) to the owner of the land; and (b) if the land is occupied by a person other than the owner, to the occupier. (2) The notice must specify the purpose for which the provider intends to engage in the activity. (3) The notice under subsection (1) must contain a statement to the effect that if a person suffers financial loss or damage in relation to property because of anything done by the provider in engaging in the activity, compensation may be payable. (4) The notice under subsection (1) must be given at least fourteen days before the provider begins to engage in the activity. (5) A person may waive the person’s right to be given a notice under subsection (1). (6) Subsection (1) does not apply if— (a) the network facilities provider has complied with any technical code and mandatory standards relevant to the activity; and

113Communications and Multimedia (b) the activity needs to be carried out without delay in order to protect— (i) the integrity of network facilities; (ii) the health or safety of persons; (iii) the environment; (iv) property; or (v) the maintenance of an adequate level of service. (7) Subsection (1) does not apply if— (a) the provider intends to engage in activities under section 214; (b) engaging in those activities does not involve any material disturbance to the land; and (c) the land is a public place. Notice to owner of land for lopping of trees, etc. 222. (1) At least fourteen days before— (a) cutting down or lopping a tree on private land; or (b) clearing or removing undergrowth or vegetation on private land, under section 215, a network facilities provider shall give— (aa) the owner of the land; and (bb) if the land is occupied by a person other than the owner, the occupier, a written notice requesting that the tree be cut down or lopped, or that the undergrowth or vegetation be cleared, in the manner, and within the period, specified in the notice. (2) The provider may only engage in those activities if the request is not complied with. (3) A person may waive the person’s right to be given a notice under subsection (1).

114 Laws of Malaysia Act 588 (4) Subsections (1) and (2) do not apply if— (a) the network facilities provider has complied with any technical codes and/or mandatory standards relevant to the activities; and (b) the activity needs to be carried out without delay in order to protect— (i) the integrity of network facilities; (ii) the health or safety of persons; (iii) the environment; (iv) property; or (v) the maintenance of an adequate level of service. Notice to road authority, public utility, etc. 223. (1) Subject to any other relevant written law, at least fourteen days before— (a) closing, diverting or narrowing a road or bridge; (b) installing any network facilities on, over or under a road or bridge; or (c) altering the position of a conduit, gas main or pipe, under section 215, a network facilities provider shall give written notice of his intention to do so to the person or authority responsible for the care and management of the road, bridge, conduit, gas main or pipe. (2) A person or authority may waive the person’s or authority’s right to be given a notice under subsection (1). (3) Subsection (1) does not apply if— (a) the network facilities provider has complied with any technical codes and mandatory standards relevant to the activities; and (b) those activities need to be carried out without delay in order to protect— (i) the integrity of a network facility;

115Communications and Multimedia (ii) the health or safety of persons; (iii) the environment; (iv) property; or (v) the maintenance of an adequate level of service. Road, etc., to remain open for passage 224. If a network facilities provider engages in an activity covered by section 215, the provider shall ensure that the network facilities installed over a road, bridge, path or navigable water are installed in a way that will allow reasonable passage by persons, vehicles and vessels. Network facilities installation permit 225. A network facilities provider may apply to the Commission, in the manner as provided in the regulations, for a network facilities installation permit authorizing the network facilities provider to carry out the installation of one or more network facilities. Criteria for issue of network facilities installation permit 226. The Commission shall issue a network facilities installation permit that authorizes a network facilities provider to carry out the installation of one or more facilities if the network facilities provider has satisfied the Commission that— (a) both of the following conditions are satisfied: (i) the provider has made reasonable efforts in good faith with each proprietor whose approval is required or would, apart from section 215, be required, for carrying out the installation; and (ii) at least one of those approvals has not been obtained within fourteen days after the beginning of the negotiations concerned; (b) each State Authority, local authority or other authority, whose approval is required or would, apart from section 215, be required, for the installation of the network facilities, has given such approval;

116 Laws of Malaysia Act 588 (c) the network facilities are, or are likely to be, part of another network facility of national significance; (d) the network facilities are, or are likely to be, an important part of another network facility; (e) any of the following conditions is satisfied: (i) the network facilities are part of another network facility, the greater part of which has already been installed; (ii) the network facilities are a part of another network facility, the greater part of which has not been installed, but each State Authority, local authority or other authority whose approval was required or would, apart from section 215, be required, for the installation of the greater part of the network has given, or is reasonably likely to give, such approval; or (iii) the network facilities are part of another network facility, none of which has been installed, but each State Authority, local authority or other authority, whose approval was required or would, apart from section 215, be required, for the installation of the greater part of the infrastructure of the network facilities, has given, or is reasonably likely to give, such approval; and (f) the advantages that are likely to be derived from the operation of the network facilities outweigh any form of degradation of the environment that is likely to result from the installation of the network facilities. Network facilities installation permit has effect subject to this Act and other laws 227. A network facilities installation permit has effect subject to this Act and any other relevant written law. Access to post, network facilities or right-of-way 228. (1) Notwithstanding the provisions of any other written law, a network facilities provider or a public utility shall provide 

117Communications and Multimedia a network facilities provider with non-discriminatory access to any post, network facilities or right-of-way owned or controlled by him. (2) Notwithstanding subsection (1), a network facilities provider or a public utility may deny any network facilities provider access to his post, network facilities or right-of-way on a non- discriminatory basis where there is insufficient capacity, or for reasons of safety, security, reliability, or difficulty of a technical or engineering nature. Commission to regulate matters on access to post, etc. 229. (1) The Commission may regulate the rates, terms and conditions for access to any post, network facilities or right-of- way and provide that such rates, terms and conditions are just and reasonable and may adopt procedures necessary and appropriate to hear and resolve disputes in accordance with Chapter 7 of Part V. (2) Nothing in this section shall be construed to apply to, or to give the Commission jurisdiction with respect to access to any posts, network facilities or right-of-way where such matters are regulated by a State Authority, local authority or other authority. Minister may make regulations 230. The Minister may, on the recommendation of the Commission, make regulations regarding the manner for the carrying out of the provisions of this Chapter. Chapter 2 Additional Offences and Penalties Offence if use apparatus or device without authority 231. A person who uses any apparatus or device with intent to obtain information regarding the contents, sender or addressee of any communication without an approval by a registered certifying agency under Chapter 3 of Part VII commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding fifty thousand 

118 Laws of Malaysia Act 588 ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding two years or to both. Fraudulent use of network facilities, network services, etc. 232. (1) A person who— (a) dishonestly transmits or allows to be transmitted any communication or obtains a service provided by a licensed network facilities provider, network service provider, applications service provider or content applications service provider; or (b) dishonestly receives a content applications service from a place within Malaysia not intended for general reception, with intent to avoid payment of any rate or fee applicable to the provision of that facility or service commits an offence. (2) A person who possesses, obtains or creates a system designed to fraudulently use or obtain any network facilities, network service, applications service or content applications service commits an offence. (3) A person who commits an offence under subsection (1) or (2) shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding three hundred thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding three years or to both. Improper use of network facilities or network service, etc. 233. (1) A person who— (a) by means of any network facilities or network service or applications service knowingly— (i) makes, creates or solicits; and (ii) initiates the transmission of, any comment, request, suggestion or other communication which is obscene, indecent, false, menacing or offensive in character with intent to annoy, abuse, threaten or harass another person; or

119Communications and Multimedia (b) initiates a communication using any applications service, whether continuously, rep eatedly or otherwise, during which communication may or may not ensue, with or without disclosing his identity and with intent to annoy, abuse, threaten or harass any person at any number or electronic address, commits an offence. (2) A person who knowingly— (a) by means of a network service or applications service provides any obscene communication for commercial purposes to any person; or (b) permits a network service or applications service under the person’s control to be used for an activity described in paragraph (a), commits an offence. (3) A person who commits an offence under this section shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding fifty thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding one year or to both and shall also be liable to a further fine of one thousand ringgit for every day during which the offence is continued after conviction. Interception and disclosure of communications prohibited 234. (1) A person who, without lawful authority under this Act or any other written law— (a) intercepts, attempts to intercept, or procures any other person to intercept or attempt to intercept, any communications; (b) discloses, or attempts to disclose, to any other person the contents of any communications, knowing or having reason to believe that the information was obtained through the interception of any communications in contravention of this section; or (c) uses, or attempts to use, the contents of any communications, knowing or having reaso n to believe that the 

120 Laws of Malaysia Act 588 information was obtained through the interception of any communications in contravention of this section, commits an offence. (2) A person authorized under this Act who intentionally discloses, or attempts to disclose, to any other person the contents of any communications, intercepted by means authorized by this Act— (a) knowing or having reason to believe that the information was obtained through the interception of such communications in connection with a criminal investigation; (b) having obtained or received the information in connection with a criminal investigation; or (c) to improperly obstruct, impede, or interfere with a duly authorized criminal investigation, commits an offence. (3) A person who commits an offence under subsection (1) or (2) shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding fifty thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding one year or to both. (4) It shall be lawful under this Chapter for an officer, employee or agent of any network facilities provider, network service provider, applications service provider or content applications service provider whose facilities or services are used in communications, to intercept, disclose, or use those communications in the normal course of his employment while engaged in any activity which is a necessary incident to the rendition of his facilities or services or to the protection of the rights or property of the provider of the facilities or services, but the provider shall not utilize the facilities or services for observing or random monitoring unless it is for mechanical or service quality control checks. Damage to network facilities, etc. 235. A person who, by any wilful, dishonest or negligent act or omission, extends, tampers with, adjusts, alters, removes, destroys or damages any network facilities or an y part of them 

121Communications and Multimedia commits an offence and shall, o n conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding three hundred thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding three years or to both. Fraud and related activity in connection with access devices, etc. 236. (1) A person who knowingly or with intention to defraud— (a) produces, assembles, uses, imports, sells, supplies or lets for hire any counterfeit access devices; (b) possesses any counterfeit access device or unauthorized access device; (c) produces, assembles, uses, imports, sells, supplies or lets for hire, or has control or custody of, or possesses any device-making equipment; or (d) produces, assembles, uses, imports, sells, supplies or lets for hire, or has control or custody of, or possesses— (i) any equipment, device or apparatus that has been modified or altered to obtain unauthorized use of any network service, applications service or content applications service; or (ii) hardware or software used for altering or modifying any equipment, device or apparatus to obtain unauthorized access to any network service, applications services or content applications service, commits an offence. (2) A person who without the authorization of the issuer of an access device, solicits a person for the purpose of— (a) offering an access device; or (b) selling information regarding, or an application to obtain, an access device, commits an offence. (3) A person who commits an offence under subsection (1) or (2) shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding 

122 Laws of Malaysia Act 588 five hundred thousand ringgit or to imprison ment for a term not exceeding five years or to both. (4) For the purposes of this section— “counterfeit access device” means any access device that is counterfeit, fictitious, altered, or forged, or an identifiable component of an access device or a counterfeit access device; “device-making equipment” means any equipment, mechanism, or impression designed or primarily used for making an access device or a counterfeit access device; “unauthorized access device” means any access device that is lost, stolen, expired, revoked, cancelled or obtained with intent to defraud. Prohibition on call back service 237. (1) No person shall operate, or provide, or use, a call back service under this Act. (2) A person who contravenes subsection (1) commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding three hundred thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding three years or to both. (3) For the purposes of this section, “call back service” means a service using any network facilities, network service or applications service that, through uncompleted call signalling or polling from a foreign location, or as a result of such other signalling arrangements as the Commission may determine, enables a user in Malaysia to call a foreign point without paying the rate imposed by an authorized Malaysian network facilities provider, network service provider and/or applications service provider for a call from Malaysia to such point. Emission from non-standard equipment or device 238. (1) A person who, knowingly or without reasonable excuse, causes a radio emission from any non-standard equipment or device commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding fifty thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding one year or to both.

123Communications and Multimedia (2) For the purposes of this Chapter, “non-standard equipment or device” means any equipment or device that does not comply with the technical or procedural standards prepared or determined under this Act. Unlawful use, possession or supply of non-standard equipment or device 239. (1) A person who— (a) uses any non-standard equipment or device; (b) has in his possession any non-standard equipment or device that he knows or has reason to believe is a non-standard equipment or device for the purpose of installing, working, operating or using the equipment or device; or (c) offers for supply, supplies or has in his possession with a view to supply any such non-standard equipment or device, commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding one hundred thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding two years or to both. (2) For the purposes of paragraph (1) (b), a person is deemed to have a non-standard equipment or device in his possession for the purpose of installing, working, operating or using it if it is in his possession, otherwise than for the purpose of supply to another person, and can be operated by doing any of the following: (a) connecting the equipment or device to an electric power supply by means of an electric plug or other electric connection; (b) switching on the equipment or device; (c) connecting a microphone to the equipment or device by inserting a microphone plug into the equipment or device; (d) switching on any other thing relevant to the operation of the equipment or device; (e) adjusting settings by manipulating the external switches, dials or other controls of the equipment or device; or

124 Laws of Malaysia Act 588 (f) connecting the equipment or device to an antenna. (3) In any proceedings under this Act, any document purporting to be a certificate given by an authorized officer certifying that any particular equipment or device is a non-standard equipment or device shall be admissible as a prima facie evidence of the facts stated in it until the contrary is proved. Offence for distributing or advertising any communications equipment or device for interception of communication 240. A person who intentionally— (a) sends through the mail, or sends or carries in national or international commerce, any electronic, mechanical, or other equipment or device, knowing or having reason to believe that the design of the equipment or device renders it primarily useful for the purpose of the surreptitious interception of any communication; or (b) places in any newspaper, magazine, handbill, or other publication any advertisement of— (i) any electronic, mechanical, or other equipment or device, knowing or having reason to believe that the design of the equipment or device renders it primarily useful for the purpose of the surreptitious interception of any communication; or (ii) any other electronic, mechanical, or other equipment or device, where the advertisement promotes the use of the equipment or device for the purpose of the surreptitious interception of any communication, knowing or having reason to believe that the advertisement will be sent through the mail or transported in national or international commerce, commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding one hundred thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding tw o years or to both.

125Communications and Multimedia Offence for giving false and misleading statement 241. A person who— (a) subject to the provisions of subsection 256(2), refuses to give to an authorized officer any information relating to an offence under this Act or its subsidiary legislation; or (b) knowingly gives false information, commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding twenty thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding six months or to both. General offence and penalty 242. Every omission or neglect to comply with, and every act done or attempted to be done contrary to, this Act or its subsidiary legislation or any written instrument made under this Act, or in breach of the conditions subject to which any licence has been granted, or assignment issued, shall be an offence against this Act or its subsidiary legislation, and for every such offence, where the penalty is not otherwise specifically provided for, the offender shall, in addition to the forfeiture of any thing seized, be liable to a fine not exceeding one hundred thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding two years or to both. Compounding of offences 243. (1) The Chairman of the Commission may, with the consent in writing of the Public Prosecutor, compound any offence committed by any person under this Act or its subsidiary legislation and determined by the Minister to be a compoundable offence by regulations made under this Act by making a written offer to the person suspected to have committed the offence to compound the offence upon payment to the Chairman of an amount of money not exceeding fifty per cent of the amount of maximum fine for that offence within the time specified in the offer. (2) An offer under subsection (1) may be made at any time after the offence has been committed, but before any prosecution for it has been instituted, and if the amount specified in the offer is not paid within the time specified in the offer or within such 

126 Laws of Malaysia Act 588 extended period as the Chairman ma y grant, prosecution for the offence may be instituted at any time after that against the person to whom the offer was made. (3) If an offence has been compounded under subsection (1), no prosecution shall be instituted in respect of the offence against the person to whom the offer to compound was made and any thing seized in connection with the offence may be released or forfeited by the Chairman, subject to such terms and conditions as he thinks fit. (4) All sums of money received by the Chairman under this section shall be paid into and form part of the Federal Consolidated Fund. Offences by body corporate 244. (1) If a body corporate commits an offence under this Act or its subsidiary legislation a person who at the time of the commission of the offence was a director, chief executive officer, manager, secretary or other similar officer of the body corporate or was purporting to act in any such capacity or was in any manner or to any extent responsible for the management of any of the affairs of the body corporate or was assisting in such management— (a) may be charged severally or jointly in the same proceedings with the body corporate; and (b) if the body corporate is found guilty of the offence, shall be deemed to be guilty of that offence unless, having regard to the nature of his functions in that capacity and to all circumstances, he proves— (i) that the offence was committed without his knowledge, consent or connivance; and (ii) that he had taken all reasonable precautions and exercised due diligence to prevent the commission of the offence. (2) If any person would be liable under this Act to any punishment or penalty for his act, omission, neglect or default, he shall be liable to the same punishment o r penalty for every 

127Communications and Multimedia such act, omission, neglect or default of any employee or agent of his, or of the employee of the agent, if the act, omission, neglect or default was committed— (a) by that person’s employee in the course of his employment; (b) by the agent when acting on behalf of that person; or (c) by the employee of the agent in the course of his employment by the agent or otherwise on behalf of the agent acting on behalf of that person. Chapter 3 Powers of Entry, Investigation into Offences and Prosecution Authorized officer 245. (1) The Minister may in writing authorize any public officer or officer of the Commission to exercise the powers of enforcement under this Act. (2) Any such officer shall be deemed to be a public servant within the meaning of the Penal Code. (3) In exercising any of the powers of enforcement under this Act, an authorized officer shall on demand produce to the person against whom he is acting the authority issued to him by the Minister. (4) For the purposes of subsection (1), the Commission may issue directions to a licensee or other person to secure compliance with this Act or its subsidiary legislation. Power to investigate 246. (1) The Commission may investigate the activities of a licensee or other person material to his compliance with this Act or its subsidiary legislation. (2) In any case relating to the commission of an offence under this Act or its subsidiary legislation, any authorized officer carrying 

128 Laws of Malaysia Act 588 out an investigation may exercise all or any of the special powers in relation to police in vestigation in seizable cases given by the Criminal Procedure Code. Search by warrant 247. (1) If it appears to a Magistrate, upon written information on oath and after such inquiry as he considers necessary, that there is reasonable cause to believe that an offence under this Act or its subsidiary legislation is being or has been committed on any premises, or that any evidence or thing which is necessary to the conduct of an investigation into an offence may be found in any premises, the Magistrate may issue a warrant authorizing any police officer not below the rank of Inspector, or any authorized officer named in it, to enter the premises at any reasonable time by day or by night, with or without assistance and if need be by force, and there to search for and seize any such evidence or thing. (2) Without affecting the generality of subsection (1), the warrant issued by the Magistrate may authorize the search and seizure of— (a) copies of any books, accounts or other documents, including computerized data, which contain or are reasonably suspected to contain information as to any offence so suspected to have been committed; (b) any signboard, card, letter, pamphlet, leaflet or notice representing or implying that the person has a licence granted or assignment issued under this Act; or (c) any other document, facility, apparatus, equipment, device or matter that is reasonably believed to furnish evidence of the commission of the offence. (3) A police officer or an authorized officer conducting a search under subsection (1) may, for the purpose of investigating into the offence, search any person who is in or on the premises. (4) A police officer or an authorized officer making a search of a person under subsection (3) may seize, or take possession of, and place in safe custody all things, other th an the necessary clothing, found upon the person, and any other things, for which 

129Communications and Multimedia there is reason to believe that they are the instruments or other evidence of the crime, and they may be detained until the discharge or acquittal of the person. (5) Whenever it is necessary to cause a woman to be searched, the search shall be made by another woman with strict regard to decency. (6) If, by reason of its nature, size or amount, it is not practicable to remove any book, accounts, document, computerized data, signboard, card, letter, pamphlet, leaflet, notice, facility, apparatus, equipment, device, thing or matter seized under this section, the seizing officer shall, by any means, seal such book, accounts, document, computerized data, signboard, card, letter, pamphlet, leaflet, notice, facility, apparatus, equipment, device, thing or matter in the premises or container in which it is found. (7) A person who, without lawful authority, breaks, tampers with or damages the seal referred to in subsection (6) or removes any book, accounts, document, computerized data, signboard, card, letter, pamphlet, leaflet, notice, facility, apparatus, equipment, device, thing or matter under seal or attempts to do so commits an offence. (8) If a search under this section indicates that there is any interference-causing equipment, radio apparatus or radio-sensitive equipment, the authorized officer may direct that necessary steps be taken to ensure an interference-free environment. Search and seizure without warrant 248. If a police officer not below the rank of Inspector in any of the circumstances referred to in section 247 has reasonable cause to believe that by reason of delay in obtaining a search warrant under that section the investigation would be adversely affected or evidence of the commission of an offence is likely to be tampered with, removed, damaged or destroyed, the officer may enter the premises and exercise in, upon and in respect of the premises all the powers referred to in section 247 in as full and ample a manner as if he were authorized to do so by a warrant issued under that section.

130 Laws of Malaysia Act 588 Access to computerized data 249. (1) A police officer conducting a search under section 247 or 248 or an authorized officer conducting a search under section 247 shall be given access to computerized data whether stored in a computer or otherwise. (2) For the purposes of this section, “access” includes— (a) being provided with the necessary password, encryption code, decryption code, software or hardware and any other means required to enable comprehension of computerized data; and (b) the meaning assigned to it by subsections 2(2) and (5) of the Computer Crimes Act 1997 [ Act 563 ]. List of things seized 250. (1) Except as provided in subsection (2), where any book, accounts, document, computerized data, signboard, card, letter, pamphlet, leaflet, notice, facility, apparatus, equipment, device, thing or matter is seized under section 247 or 248, the seizing officer shall prepare a list of the things seized and immediately deliver a copy of the list signed by him to the occupier of the premises which have been searched, or to his agent or servant, at those premises. (2) If the premises are unoccupied, the seizing officer shall whenever possible post a list of the things seized conspicuously on the premises. Release of things seized 251. (1) If any thing has been seized under this Act, a designated police officer other than the police officer who effected the seizure, may at any time after that before it is forfeited under this Act release the thing to the person as he determines to be lawfully entitled to the thing if he is satisfied that the thing is not liable to forfeiture under this Act and is not otherwise required for the purpose of any proceedings under this Act, or for the purpose of any prosecution under any other law, and i n such event neither 

131Communications and Multimedia the officer effecting the seizure, nor the Government or any person acting on behalf of the Government, shall be liable to any proceedings by any person if the seizure and the release of the thing had been effected in good faith. (2) A record in writing shall be made by the officer effecting the release of any thing under subsection (1) specifying in detail the circumstances of, and the reason for, the release, and he shall send a copy of the record to the Public Prosecutor and to the Inspector-General of Police within seven days of the release. Power to intercept communications 252. (1) Notwithstanding the provisions of any other written law, the Public Prosecutor, if he considers that any communications is likely to contain any information which is relevant for the purpose of any investigation into an offence under this Act or its subsidiary legislation, may, on the application of an authorized officer or a police officer of or above the rank of Superintendent, authorize the officer to intercept or to listen to any communication transmitted or received by any communications. (2) When any person is charged with an offence under this Act or its subsidiary legislation, any information obtained by an authorized officer or a police officer under subsection (1), whether before or after the person is charged, shall be admissible at his trial in evidence. (3) An authorization by the Public Prosecutor under subsection (1) may be given either orally or in writing; but if an oral authorization is given, the Public Prosecutor shall, as soon as practicable, reduce the authorization into writing. (4) A certificate by the Public Prosecutor stating that the action taken by an authorized officer or a police officer under subsection (1) had been authorized by him under that subsection shall be conclusive evidence that it had been so authorized, and the certificate shall be admissible in evidence without proof of his signature there. (5) No person shall be under any duty, obligation or liability, or be in any manner compelled, to disclose in any proceedings the procedure, method, manner or means, or any matter related to it, of anything done under subsection (1).

132 Laws of Malaysia Act 588 Obstruction to search 253. A person who assaults, impedes, obstructs or interferes with, or refuses access to any premises to, an authorized officer in the performance of his duties under this Act or its subsidiary legislation commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding twenty thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding six months or to both. Additional powers 254. An authorized officer shall, for the purposes of the execution of this Act or its subsidiary legislation, have power to do all or any of the following: (a) to require the production of records, accounts, computerized data and documents kept by a licensee or other person and to inspect, examine and to download from them, make copies of them or take extracts from them; (b) to require the production of any identification document from any person in relation to any case or offence under this Act or its subsidiary legislation; and (c) to make such inquiry as may be necessary to ascertain whether the provisions of this Act or its subsidiary legislation have been complied with . Power to require attendance of person acquainted with case 255. (1) An authorized officer making an investigation under this Act may by order in writing require the attendance before himself of a person who appears to the authorized officer to be acquainted with the circumstances of the case, and the person shall attend as so required. (2) If the person fails to attend as required, the authorized officer may report the failure to a Magistrate who shall issue a warrant to secure the attendance of the person. Examination of person acquainted with case 256. (1) An authorized officer making an investigation under this Act may examine orally a person supposed to be acquainted with the facts and circ umstances of the case.

133Communications and Multimedia (2) The person shall be legally bound to answer all questions relating to the case put to him by the authorized officer, but the person may refuse to answer any question the answer to which would have a tendency to expose him to a criminal charge or penalty or forfeiture. (3) A person making a statement under this section shall be legally bound to state the truth, whether or not the statement is made wholly or partly in answer to questions. (4) The authorized officer obtaining information from a person shall first inform that person of the provisions of subsections (2) and (3). (5) A statement made by a person under this section shall, whenever possible, be reduced into writing and signed by the person making it or affixed with his thumb print, as the case may be, after it has been read to him in the language in which he made it and after he has been given an opportunity to make any corrections he may wish. Admissibility of statements in evidence 257. (1) If any person is charged with an offence under this Act, any statement, whether the statement amounts to a confession or not or whether it is oral or in writing, made at any time, whether before or after the person is charged and whether in the course of an investigation under this Act or not and whether or not wholly or partly in answer to questions, by that person to or in the hearing of an authorized officer and whether or not interpreted to him by another officer or other person, shall be admissible in evidence at his trial and, if the person charged tenders himself as a witness, any such statement may be used in cross-examination and for the purpose of impeaching his credit. (2) No statement under subsection (1) shall be admissible or used— (a) if the making of the statement appears to the court to have been caused by any inducement, threat or promise having reference to the charge against such person proceeding from a person in authority and sufficient in the opinion of the court to give the person charged grounds which would appear to him reasonable for supposing that by 

134 Laws of Malaysia Act 588 making it he would gain any advantage or avoid any evil of a temporal nature in reference to the proceedings against him; or (b) in the case of a statement made by the person after his arrest, unless the court is satisfied that he was cautioned in the following words or words to the like effect: “It is my duty to warn you that you are not obliged to say anything or to answer any question, but anything you say, whether in answer to a question or not, may be given in evidence”. (3) A statement made by a person before there is time to caution him shall not be rendered inadmissible in evidence merely by reason of his not having been cautioned if he is cautioned as soon as possible after that. Authorized officer to complete investigation and hand over to police 258. Upon completion of his investigation into an offence under this Act or its subsidiary legislation, the authorized officer shall immediately give all information relating to the commission of the offence to an officer in charge of a police station and a police officer may, by warrant, arrest a person who may have committed an offence under this Act or its subsidiary legislation. Prosecution 259. No prosecution shall be instituted for an offence under this Act without the consent in writing of the Public Prosecutor. Forfeiture 260. (1) Any facility, apparatus, equipment, device, thing or matter seized under this Act may be liable to forfeiture. (2) An order for the forfeiture or for the release of any facility, apparatus, equipment, device, thing or matter liable to forfeiture under this section shall be made by the court before which the prosecution with regard to it has been held and an order for the forfeiture of the facility, apparatus, equipment, device, thing or 

135Communications and Multimedia matter shall be made if it is proved to the satisfaction of the court that an offence under this Act or its subsidiary legislation, or any breach of the conditions subject to which a licence has been granted or an assignment has been issued, has been committed and that the facility, apparatus, equipment, device, thing or matter was used in the commission of the offence despite the fact that no person may have been convicted of the offence or breach. (3) If there is no prosecution with regard to any facility, apparatus, equipment, device, thing or matter seized in the exercise of any power conferred under this Act, the facility, apparatus, equipment, device, thing or matter shall be taken or deemed to be forfeited at the expiration of one calendar month from the date it was seized unless a claim to it is made before that date in the manner provided in this section. (4) A person asserting that he is the owner of any facility, apparatus, equipment, device, thing or matter seized under this Act and that the facility, apparatus, equipment, device, thing or matter is not liable to forfeiture may personally or by his agent authorized in writing by him give written notice to the Commission or any authorized officer of his claim. (5) On receipt of a notice under subsection (4), the Commission or any authorized officer shall, after such enquiry as may be necessary, direct that the facility, apparatus, equipment, device, thing or matter be released or forfeited or refer the case to a Sessions Court Judge for decision. (6) The Sessions Court Judge to whom the case is referred shall issue a summons requiring the person asserting that he is the owner of the facility, apparatus, equipment, device, thing or matter and the person from whom they were seized to appear before him and upon his appearance or default to appear, due service of the summons being proved, the Sessions Court Judge shall proceed to the examination of the case and on proof that an offence under this Act has been committed and that the facility, apparatus, equipment, device, thing or matter was the subject- matter or was used in the commission of the offence, shall order the facility, apparatus, equipment, device, thing or matter to be forfeited or may, in the absence of such proof, order the release of the facility, apparatus, equipment, device, thing or matter to the person entitled to it.

136 Laws of Malaysia Act 588 (7) Any facility, apparatus, equipment, device, thing or matter forfeited or deemed to be for feited shall be delivered to the Commission or an authorized officer who shall dispose of it in the manner as the Commission deems fit. Jurisdiction to try offences 261. Notwithstanding any written law to the contrary, a Sessions Court shall have jurisdiction to try any offence under this Act. Rewards 262. The Commission may order such rewards as it may deem fit to be paid to any police officer or other public officer or other person for services rendered in connection with the detection of any offence under this Act or its subsidiary legislation, or in relation to any forfeiture proceeding, or any seizure made, under this Act. Chapter 4 National Interest Matters General duty of licensees 263. (1) A licensee shall use his best endeavour to prevent the network facilities that he owns or provides or the network service, applications service or content applications service that he provides from being used in, or in relation to, the commission of any offence under any law of Malaysia. (2) A licensee shall, upon written request by the Commission or any other authority, assist the Commission or other authority as far as reasonably necessary in preventing the commission or attempted commission of an offence under any written law of Malaysia or otherwise in enforcing the laws of Malaysia, including, but not limited to, the protection of the public revenue and preservation of national security. Persons not liable for act done in good faith 264. Any network facilities provider, network service provider, appli cations service provider or content applications service 

137Communications and Multimedia provider or any of his employees, shall not be liable in any criminal proceedings of any nature for any damage (including punitive damages), loss, cost, or expenditure suffered or to be suffered (whether directly or indirectly) for any act or omission done in good faith in the performance of the duty imposed under section 263. Network interception capability 265. (1) The Minister may determine that a licensee or class of licensees shall implement the capability to allow authorized interception of communications. (2) A determination, under subsection (1), may specify the technical requirements for authorized interception capability. Special powers in emergency 266. (1) On the occurrence of any public emergency or in the interest of public safety, the Yang di-Pertuan Agong or the Minister authorized by him in that behalf may— (a) suspend the licence of any licensee, take temporary control of any network facilities, network service, applications service and/or content applications service owned or provided by a licensee in any manner as he deems fit; (b) withdraw either totally or partially the use of any network facilities, network service, applications service and/or content applications service from any licensee, person or the general public; (c) order that any communication or class of communications to or from any licensee, person or the general public relating to any specified subject shall not be communicated or shall be intercepted or detained, or that any such communication or its records shall be disclosed to an authorized officer mentioned in the order; or (d) order the taking of possession of any customer equipment. (2) If any doubt arises as to the existence of a public emergency or whether any act done under subsection (1) was in the interest of public safety, a certificate signed by the Yang di-Pertuan Agong 

138 Laws of Malaysia Act 588 and exhibited at such places as the Minister deems fit shall be conclusive proof on the point. (3) If the Minister takes possession of any network facilities, network service, applications service, content applications service or customer equipment under subsection (1), the person licensed under this Act with regard to the facilities, service or equipment shall be paid adequate compensation which shall be determined by the Minister after giving an opportunity to the licensee to be heard on the matter. (4) Nothing in this section shall prevent the use of any network facilities, network service, applications service, content applications service or customer equipment for the purpose of making a distress call. Disaster plan 267. The Commission may direct a licensee or class of licensees to develop, in consultation with the authorities specified by the Commission, a disaster plan for the survivability and recovery of any network facilities, network service, applications service or content applications service in case of a disaster, crisis or civil emergency. Chapter 5 Miscellaneous Minister may make rules on record-keeping 268. The Minister may make rules, to be published in the Gazette , to provide for record-keeping and to require one or more licensees or persons to keep and retain records. Interworking with other authorities 269. (1) The Minister may direct the Commission regarding the interworking arrangements between the Commission and any other authority in Malaysia or i n a foreign jurisdiction, or any international organization.

139Communications and Multimedia (2) The Minister may make rules, to be published in the Gazett e, and/or determine arrangements for interworking with, or membership of, international organizations regarding the interworking arrangements between licensees under this Act and international organizations. (3) The Commission may direct a licensee to comply with the rules made and/or arrangements determined under subsection (2). Instruments granted under this Act 270. An instrument issued, made or given under this Act may make provisions in relation to a matter by applying, adopting or incorporating (with or without modifications) provisions of any other written law that is in operation at the particular time. This Act prevails over other Acts 271. If there is any inconsistency or conflict between this Act and any other relevant written law, the provisions of this Act shall prevail to the extent of the inconsistency or conflict. Protection of officers and other persons 272. No action or prosecution shall be brought, instituted or maintained in any court against— (a) the Commission or an authorized officer or any other person in respect of any act ordered or done for the purpose of carrying into effect this Act; and (b) any other person in respect of any act done or purported to be done by him under the order, direction or instruction of the Commission or an authorized officer if the act was done in good faith and in a reasonable belief that it was necessary for the purpose intended to be served by it.

140 Laws of Malaysia Act 588 Part XI TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS Chapter 1 Repeal and Savings Repeal 273. (1) The Telecommunications Act 1950 [ Act 20 ] and the Broadcasting Act 1988 [ Act 338 ] are repealed (“the repealed Acts”). (2) Any subsidiary legislation made under the repealed Acts shall, in so far as it is not inconsistent with this Act, remain in operation until revoked or replaced by subsidiary legislation made under this Act, and shall be deemed for all purposes to have been made under this Act. (3) The Minister may, whenever it appears to him necessary or expedient so to do whether for the purpose of removing difficulties or in consequence of the passing of this Act, by order to be published in the Gazette , make such modifications to any subsidiary legislation as he deems fit. Dissolution of the Telecommunications Fund 274. (1) The Telecommunications Fund is dissolved. (2) All moneys standing in the Telecommunications Fund shall, on the date of coming into operation of this Act, be transferred to and vested in the Fund established under the Malaysian Communications and Multimedia Commission Act 1998. Savings 275. Any registration, act, order, direction, approval or decision done, made or given before the date of coming into operation of this Act shall be deemed to have been done, made or given under this Act and shall continue in full force and effect in relation to whom they apply until amended or revoked under this Act or new rules, regulations or other subsidiary legislation are made under it or until the date of its expiry.

141Communications and Multimedia Chapter 2 Transitional Provisions for Licences Old licences to have effect 276. Subject to section 278, licences issued under the repealed Acts (“old licences”) shall continue to have effect under this Act. New class licences to supersede old licences 277. Notwithstanding section 276, an old licence shall not have effect to the extent of any conflict with a class licence granted under this Act. Old licences shall be registered 278. Notwithstanding section 276, a valid licence granted under the repealed Acts shall only be effective for a period of twelve months after the appointed date, unless it has been registered (“registered licence”) by the Commission within twelve months from the appointed date. A registered licence shall confer no new benefit 279. This Act does not confer any new benefit or right on a registered licensee registered under section 278 except where that benefit or right was conferred under the old licence. Old licensees shall indicate intention 280. A holder of a licence granted under the repealed Acts shall indicate to the Minister in writing whether he intends to seek a licence under this Act within twelve months from the appointed date. Registered licensee may apply for an individual licence under this Act 281. (1) A holder of a registered licence, granted under the repealed Acts, may apply for an individual licence under this Act in substitution of his old licence.

142 Laws of Malaysia Act 588 (2) The Minister may declare, in accordance with section 13, that an individual licence, granted under subsection (1), shall be subject to such general or standard conditions as the Minister may determine for each type of licence and such other special or additional conditions as the Minister is satisfied are in the national interest. Determination of listed facilities and services 282. (1) The Commission shall make a determination, in accordance with section 55, regarding the listing of all facilities and services available to licensees under the licences granted under the Telecommunications Act 1950, for the purposes of ensuring any-to-any connectivity between end users. (2) Notwithstanding Part V, the Commission shall not be required to conduct an inquiry before making a determination under this section. Schedule [Paragraph 32 (a), subsections 44(2), 127(1) and 206(1)] LICENCE CONDITIONS 1. Network Facilities Provider Individual Licence Standard licence conditions The licensee shall be a company that is incorporated in Malaysia. The shareholding of the company shall comply with relevant Malaysian foreign investment restrictions. The licensee shall notify the Minister of any changes on shareholdings which are required to be notified to the relevant authority. The licensee shall notify the Minister of any joint ventures with other licensees into which the licensee enters. The licence replaces any other licence granted by the Minister and shall be the sole licence held by the licensee in respect of the network facilities authorized under this licence. The licensee shall comply with the provisions of the Communications and Multimedia Act 1998 (“this Act”).

143Communications and Multimedia The licensee shall c omply with the provisions of any subsidiary legislation made, or other instruments, guidelines or regulatory policies issued, under this Act. The licensee shall comply with the numbering and electronic addressing plan issued under this Act. The licensee shall comply with the spectrum plan issued under this Act. The licensee shall comply with any consumer codes registered under this Act which are relevant to the activities of the licensee. The licensee shall indemnify the Minister and the Commission against any claims or proceedings arising from any breaches or failings on the part of the licensee. Other standard conditions and matters as declared by the Minister, or provided in any subsidiary legislation, under this Act. Special licence conditions Definition of terms used in the licence. Period of the licence. Initial licence fees. Annual licence fee schedule: Annual turnover % RM....... ......% RM....... ......% RM....... ......% Licensed area. Location of control centre. The percentage of the total services in operation in areas that are determined by the Commission to be “underserved areas” or provided to persons who are determined by the Commission to be “underserved groups within the community” under section 202 of this Act.

144 Laws of Malaysia Act 588 Installation of broadband inf rastructure. Specific undertaking with respect to levels of investment, specific activities and operations. Specific rights and privileges agreed between the licensee and the Government which are conditional upon the undertakings entered into by the licensee. Requirement for the licensee to transfer assets to the Government at the end of the licence period. Other special conditions and matters as declared by the Minister, or provided in any subsidiary legislation, under this Act. 2. Network Facilities Provider Class Licence Standard licence conditions A class licence replaces any other licence granted by the Minister and shall be the sole licence held by the licensee in respect of the network facilities authorized under this licence. The licensee shall comply with the provisions of the Communications and Multimedia Act 1998 (“this Act”). The licensee shall comply with the provisions of any subsidiary legislation made, or other instruments, guidelines or regulatory policies issued, under this Act. The licensee shall comply with the numbering and electronic addressing plan issued under this Act. The licensee shall comply with the spectrum plan issued under this Act. The licensee shall comply with any consumer codes registered under this Act which are relevant to the activities of the licensee. The licensee shall indemnify the Minister and the Commission against any claims or proceedings arising from any breaches or failings on the part of the licensee. Other standard conditions and matters as declared by the Minister, or provided in any subsidiary legisl ation, under this Act.

145Communications and Multimedia 3. Network Service Provider Individual Licence Standard licence conditions The licensee shall be a company that is incorporated in Malaysia. The shareholding of the company shall comply with relevant Malaysian foreign investment restrictions. The licensee shall notify the Minister of any change on shareholdings which are required to be notified to the relevant authority. The licensee shall notify the Minister of any joint ventures with other licensees which the licensee enters into. The licence replaces any other licence granted by the Minister and shall be the sole licence held by the licensee in respect of the network services authorized under this licence. The licensee shall comply with the provisions of the Communications and Multimedia Act 1998 (“this Act”). The licensee shall comply with the provisions of any subsidiary legislation made, or other instruments, guidelines or regulatory policies issued under this Act. The licensee shall comply with the numbering and electronic addressing plan issued under this Act. The licensee shall comply with the spectrum plan issued under this Act. The licensee shall comply with any consumer codes registered under this Act which are relevant to the activities of the licensee. The licensee shall indemnify the Minister and the Commission against any claims or proceedings arising from any breaches or failings on the part of the licensee. Other standard conditions and matters as declared by the Minister, or provided in any subsidiary legislation, under this Act. Special licence conditions Definition of terms used in the licence. Period of the licence. Initial licence fees.

146 Laws of Malaysia Act 588 Annual licence fee schedule: Annual turnover % RM....... .......% RM....... .......% RM....... .......% Licensed area. Location of control centre. The percentage of the total services in operation in areas that are determined by the Commission to be “underserved areas” or provided to persons who are determined by the Commission to be “underserved groups within the community” under section 202 of this Act. Provision of broadband network services. Specific undertakings with respect to levels of investment, specific activities and operations. Specific rights and privileges agreed between the licensee and the Government which are conditional upon the undertakings entered into by the licensee. Other special conditions and matters as declared by the Minister, or provided in any subsidiary legislation, under this Act. 4. Network Service Provider Class Licence Standard licence conditions A class licence replaces any other licence granted by the Minister and shall be the sole licence held by the licensee in respect of the network services authorized under this licence. The licensee shall comply with the provisions of the Communications and Multimedia Act 1998 (“this Act”). The licensee shall comply with the provisions of any subsidiary legislation made, or other instruments, guidelines or regulatory policies issued, under this Act. The licensee shall comply with the numbering and electronic addressing plan issued under this Act.

147Communications and Multimedia The licensee shall comply with the spectrum plan issued under this Act. The licensee shall comply with any consumer codes registered under this Act which are relevant to the activities of the licensee. The licensee shall indemnify the Minister and the Commission against any claims or proceedings arising from any breaches or failings on the part of the licensee. Other standard conditions and matters as declared by the Minister, or provided in any subsidiary legislation, under this Act. 5. Applications Service Provider Individual Licence Standard licence conditions The licensee shall be a company that is incorporated in Malaysia. The shareholding of the company shall comply with relevant Malaysian foreign investment restrictions. The licensee shall notify the Minister of any changes on shareholding which are required to be notified to the relevant authority. The licensee shall notify the Minister of any joint ventures with other licensees which the licensee enters into. The licence replaces any other licence issued by the Minister and shall be the sole licence held by the licensee in respect of the applications services authorized under this licence. The licensee shall comply with the provisions of the Communications and Multimedia Act 1998 (“this Act”). The licensee shall comply with the provisions of any subsidiary legislation made, or other instruments, guidelines and regulatory policies issued, under this Act. The licensee shall comply with the numbering and electronic addressing plan issued under this Act. The licensee shall comply with any consumer codes registered under this Act which are relevant to the activities of the licensee. The licensee shall indemnify the Minister and the Commission against any claims or proceedings arising from any breaches or failings on the part of the licensee.

148 Laws of Malaysia Act 588 Other standard conditions and matters as declared by the Minister, or provided in any subsidiary legislation, under this Act. Special licence conditions Definition of terms used in the licence. Period of the licence. Initial licence fee. Annual licence fee schedule: Annual turnover % RM…… ….% RM…… ….% RM…… ….% Licensed area. Location of control centre. The percentage of the total volume of traffic carried by means of the licensee’s network facilities that will be originated, or terminated, or originated and terminated in areas that are determined by the Commission to be “underserved areas”, or will be provided to persons who are determined by the Commission to be “underserved groups within the community” under section 202 of this Act. Provision of broadband applications services. Specific undertakings with respect to levels of investment, specific activities and operations. Specific rights and privileges agreed between the licence and the Government which are conditional upon the undertakings entered into by the licensee. Other special conditions and matters as declared by the Minister, or provided in any subsidiary legislation, under this Act. 6. Applications Service Provider Class Licence Standard licence conditions The class licence replaces any other licence granted by the Minister and shall be the sole licence held by the licensee in respect of the applications services authorized under this licence.

149Communications and Multimedia The licensee must c omply with the provisions of the Communications and Multimedia Act 1998 (“this Act”). The licensee shall comply with the provisions of any subsidiary legislation made, or other instruments, guidelines or regulatory policies issued, under this Act. The licensee shall comply with the numbering and electronic addressing plan issued under this Act. The licensee shall comply with any consumer codes registered under this Act which are relevant to the activities of the licensee. The licensee shall indemnify the Minister and the Commission against any claims or proceedings arising from any breaches or failings on the part of the licensee. Other standard conditions and matters as declared by the Minister, or provided in any subsidiary legislation, under this Act. 7. Content Applications Ser vice Provider Individual Licence Standard licence conditions The licensee shall be a company that is incorporated in Malaysia. The shareholding of the company shall comply with relevant Malaysian foreign investment restrictions. The licensee shall notify the Minister of any changes on shareholdings which are required to be notified to the relevant authority. The licensee shall notify the Minister of any joint ventures with other licensees which the licensee enters into. The licence replaces any other licence granted by the Minister and shall be the sole licence held by the licensee in respect of the content applications services authorized under this licence. The licensee shall comply with the provisions of the Communications and Multimedia Act 1998 (“this Act”). The licensee shall comply with the provisions of any subsidiary legislation made, or other i nstruments, guidelines or regulatory policies issued, under this Act.

150 Laws of Malaysia Act 588 The licensee sha ll comply with any consumer codes registered under this Act which are relevant to the activities of the licensee. The licensee shall indemnify the Minister and the Commission against any claims or proceedings arising from any breaches or failings on the part of the licensee. Other standard conditions and matters as declared by the Minister, or provided in any subsidiary legislation, under this Act. Special licence conditions Definition of terms used in the licence. Period of the licence. Initial licence fees. Annual licence fee schedule: Annual turnover % RM…… .....% RM…… .....% RM…… .....% Licensed area. Location of control centre. Station call. Hours of operation. The percentage of the total content applications service area covered by the licensee which will be located in areas that are determined by the Commission to be “underserved areas”, or will be provided to persons who are determined by the Commission to be “underserved groups within the community” under section 202 of this Act. The requirement to provide a certain percentage of local content (including special content categories such as: particular language content requirements, particular categories of local production such as film, advertising, etc.). Specific undertakings with respect to levels of investment, specific activities and operations.

151Communications and Multimedia Specific rights and privileges agreed between the licensee and the Government which are conditional upon the undertakings entered into by the licensee. Other special conditions and matters as declared by the Minister, or provided in any subsidiary legislation, under this Act. 8. Content Applications Service Provider Class Licence Standard licence conditions A class licence replaces any other licence granted by the Minister and shall be the sole licence held by the licensee in respect of the content applications services authorized under this licence. The licensee shall comply with the provisions of the Communications and Multimedia Act 1998 (“this Act”). The licensee shall comply with the provisions of any subsidiary legislation made, or other instruments, guidelines or regulatory policies issued, under this Act. The licensee shall comply with the numbering and electronic addressing plan issued under this Act. The licensee shall comply with any consumer codes registered under this Act which are relevant to the activities of the licensee. The licensee shall indemnify the Minister and the Commission against any claims or proceedings arising from any breaches or failings on the part of the licensee. Other standard conditions and matters as declared by the Minister, or provided in any subsidiary legislation, under this Act.

152 Laws of Malaysia Act 588 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 588 COMMUNICATIONS AND MULTIMEDIA ACT 1998 LIST OF AMENDMENTS Amending law Short title In force from Act A1220 Communications and Multimedia 012005 (Amendment) Act 2004

153Communications and Multimedia LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 588 COMMUNICATIONS AND MULTIMEDIA ACT 1998 LIST OF SECTIONS AMENDED Section Amending a uthority In force from 4 Act A1220 01 2005 6 Act A1220 01 2005 16 Act A1220 01 2005 23a Act A1220 01 2005 24 Act A1220 01 2005 24a Act A1220 01 2005 26a Act A1220 01 2005 26b Act A1220 01 2005 26c Act A1220 01 2005 26d Act A1220 01 2005 26e Act A1220 01 2005 30 Act A1220 01 2005 34 Act A1220 01 2005 36 Act A1220 01 2005 80 Act A1220 01 2005 104 Act A1220 01 2005 147 Act A1220 01 2005 157 Act A1220 01 2005 187 Act A1220 01 2005 188 Act A1220 01 2005

154 Laws of Malaysia Act 588 Section Amending a uthority In force from 193 Act A1220 012005 204 Act A1220 012005