1Malaysian Investment Developm ent Authority (Incorporation) LAWS OF MALAYSIA REPRINT Act 397 MALAYSIAN INVESTMENT DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY (INCORPORATION) ACT 1965 As at 1 October 2014 PUBLISHED BY THE COMMISSIONER OF LAW REVISION, MALAYSIA UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF THE REVISION OF LAWS ACT 1968 2014

2 Laws of Malaysia Ac t 3972 MALAYSIAN INVESTMENT DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY (INCORPORATION) ACT 1965 First enacted ... ... ... … … 1965 (Act No. 13 of 1965) Revised … ... … … … … 1989 (Act 397 w.e.f 16 November 1989) Latest amendment made by Act A1399 which came into operation on … … … … 19 August 2011 Pr e v i o u s r e Pr i n t s First Reprint ... ... ... ... ... 2001 Second Reprint ... ... ... ... ... 2006 Third Reprint ... ... ... ... ... 2009

3Malaysian Investment Developm ent Authority (Incorporation) 3 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 397 MALAYSIAN INVESTMENT DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY (INCORPORATION) ACT 1965 ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS Section 1. Short title and application 2. Interpretation 3. Establishment of the Authority 3a. Establishment of the Board 3 b.	 V acation	of	office 3 c. Filling of vacancies 3d.	 Appointment	of	Chief	Executive	Officer 3e.	 Appointment	of	officers,	servants	and	other	persons 4. (Deleted) 5. Direction on policy by the Minister 6. Functions of the Authority 6a. Powers of the Authority 6 b. Board to perform functions and exercise powers of the Authority 7. (Deleted) 7a. Power to delegate 7 b. Power to appoint committees 7 c. Power to establish companies 8. (Deleted ) 9. (Deleted ) 10. Malaysian Investment Development Authority Fund

4 Laws of Malaysia Ac t 397 10a. Expenditure to be charged on the Fund 1 0a a. Investment 10b. Deposit of the Fund 10c. Balancing revenue of the Fund 10d. Expenditure and preparation of estimates 11. Statutory Bodies (Accounts and Annual Reports) Act 1980 12. Annual Report 13. Application of Penal Code and obligation of secrecy 13a. Non-liability 13b. Public Authorities Protection Act 1948 14. Regulations Sc h e d u l e Section

5Malaysian Investment Developm ent Authority (Incorporation)LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 397 MALAYSIAN INVESTMENT DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY (INCORPORATION) ACT 1965 An Act to provide for the establishment and incorporation of the Malaysian Investment Development Authority and to provide for the administration, functions and powers of the Authority and for matters connected therewith. [23 June 1966, P .U.(B)125/2002 ] BE IT ENACTED by the Seri Paduka Baginda Yang di-Pertuan Agong with the advice and consent of the Dewan Negara and Dewan Rakyat in Parliament assembled, and by the authority of the same, as follows: Short title and application 1. (1) This Act may be cited as the *Malaysian Investment Development Authority (Incorporation) Act 1965. (2) This Act shall apply throughout Malaysia. Interpretation 2. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires— “Authority” means the Malaysian Investment Development Authority established under subsection 3(1); *NOTE–The Malaysian Investment Development Authority (Incorporation) Act 1965 was previously known as the Malaysian Industrial Development Authority (Incorporation) Act 1965 [ Act 397 ] – see section 19 of the Malaysian Industrial Development Authority (Incorporation) (Amendment) Act 2011 [ Act A1399 ] w.e.f 192011.

6 Laws of Malaysia Ac t 397 “Board” means the Board established under section 3a; 	 “Chief	 Executive	Officer”	means	the	Chief	Executive	Officer	of	the	 Authority appointed under section 3d; “Fund” means the Malaysian Investment Development Authority Fund established under section 10; “Government Entity” means— (a) the Federal Government, or any State Government, State Authority or local government; and (b) any	 ministry,	 department,	 office,	 agency,	 authority,	 commission, committee, board, council or other body, corporate or unincorporate, of the Federal Government, or of any State Government, whether established under written law or otherwise; “member” means a member of the Board; “Minister” means the Minister charged with the responsibility for international trade and industry. Establishment of the Authority 3. (1) A body corporate by the name of the “Malaysian Investment Development Authority” is established. (2) The Authority shall have perpetual succession and a common seal. (3) Subject to and for the purposes of this Act, the Authority may, upon	such	term	as	it	deems	fit—	 (a) enter into contracts; (b) acquire, purchase, take, hold and enjoy movable and immovable property of every description; and (c) convey, assign, surrender, charge, mortgage, demise, reassign, transfer, or otherwise dispose of, or deal with, any movable or immovable property or any interest vested in the Authority.

7Malaysian Investment Developm ent Authority (Incorporation) Establishment of the Board 3A. (1) There shall be established a Board of the Authority consisting of the following members: (a) a Chairman who shall be appointed by the Minister; (b) the	Secretary	General	of	the	Ministry	responsible	for	finance	 or his representative; (c) the Secretary General of the Ministry responsible for international trade and industry or his representative; (d) not more than ten other members who shall be appointed by the Minister and of whom not more than seven shall represent the	 commercial,	 manufacturing,	 financial,	 industrial	 and	 service sectors; and (e) the	Chief	Executive	Officer. (2) The Board shall be responsible for— (a) providing policy guidance and recommendations in relation to the performance of the Authority’s functions and exercise of the Authority’s powers; (b) overseeing the implementation of the policies and recommendation; and (c) giving	such	directions	to	the	Chief	Executive	Officer	as	are	 consistent with the provisions of this Act. (3) The provisions of the Schedule shall apply to the Board. (4) There shall be paid to the members of the Board, other than the Chief	Executive	Officer,	such	allowances	as	may	be	determined	by	the	 Minister. 	 (5)	 Subject	 to	such	terms	as	may	be	specified	in	the	instrument	of	 appointment, a member appointed under paragraph (1) (a), (d) or (e) shall,	unless	he	sooner	resigns	or	vacates	his	office	or	his	appointment	 is	sooner	revoked,	hold	office	for	a	term	not	exceeding	three	years	and	 is eligible for reappointment.

8 Laws of Malaysia Ac t 397 (6) The Minister may at any time revoke the appointment of any member appointed under paragraph (1)(a), (d) or (e) without assigning any reason for the revocation. (7) A member appointed under paragraph (1) (a),(d) or (e) may at any	time	resign	from	his	office	by	a	written	notice	to	the	Minister. (8) The Minister may appoint any member to exercise the functions of the Chairman during any period the Chairman is for any reason unable to perform his functions or during any period of vacancy in the	office	of	the	Chairman	and	such	member	shall,	during	the	period	 in which he is performing the functions of the Chairman under this subsection, be deemed to be the Chairman. (9) Until an appointment under subsection (8) is made or in default of such appointment or in the absence of the Chairman from any meeting	of	the	Board,	the	Chief	Executive	Officer	shall	perform	the	 functions of and be deemed to be the Chairman of the Board. Vacation of office 3b. (1)	 The	office	of	a	member	appointed	under	paragraph	3a(1)(a), (d) or (e) shall be vacated— (a) if he dies; (b) if there has been proved against him, or he has been convicted on, a charge in respect of— (i) an offence involving fraud, dishonesty or moral turpitude; (ii) an offence under any law relating to corruption; or (iii) any other offence punishable with imprisonment (in itself	only	or	in	addition	to	or	in	lieu	of	a	fine)	for	more	 than two years; (c) if he becomes a bankrupt or has made an arrangement with his creditors; (d) if he is of unsound mind or is otherwise incapable of performing his duties or managing his affairs; or

9Malaysian Investment Developm ent Authority (Incorporation) (e) if he has been absent at three consecutive meetings of the Board, without leave in writing of the Minister. Filling of vacancies 3c. Where any person ceases to be a member by reason of section 3b	the	Minister	may	appoint	another	person	to	fill	the	vacancy	 for a term not exceeding three years, and that person shall be eligible for reappointment. Appointment of Chief Executive Officer 3d. (1)	 The	 Minister	 shall	 appoint,	 a	 Chief	 Executive	 Officer	upon	 such terms and conditions as the Minister may determine. 	 (2)	 The	 Chief	 Executive	 Officer	 shall	 be	 responsible	 for	 the	 administration and management of the functions and affairs of the Authority, and in particular, but without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing— (a) the preparation of programmes, schemes and projects, the progress of which must be reported to the Board from time to time; (b) the execution of programmes, schemes and projects of the Authority; (c) the issuance of policy guidance or elucidation of recommendations	 of	 the	 Board	 to	 officers	and	 servants	 of	 the Authority; (d) the	management	and	administration	of	the	financial	affairs	 of the Authority; (da) the management of the annual budget of the Authority and making a decision on the allocation for all activities including development and operational; and (e) the supervision and control over the implementation of the recommendations of the Board.

10 Laws of Malaysia Ac t 397 	 (3)	 The	 Chief	Executive	Officer	shall	perform	such	further	duties	 as the Board may from time to time direct. Appointment of officers, servants and other persons 3e. (1)	 The	 Authority	 may	 appoint	 such	 number	 of	 officers	 and	 servants of the Authority as it thinks desirable and necessary who shall be paid such remuneration and allowances and be subject to such conditions of service as may be prescribed by regulations. (2) The Authority may engage the services of and pay other persons to do any act required to be done in the performance of its functions or the exercise of its powers or for the better carrying into effect the purposes of this Act. 4. (Deleted by Act A1146). Direction on policy by the Minister 5. The Minister may give to the Board directions not inconsistent with this Act as to performance of the functions and exercise of the powers of the Authority, and the Board shall give effect to such directions. Functions of the Authority 6. It shall be the functions of the Authority to promote investments in	 the	 manufacturing	 and	 services	 sectors	 (excluding	 financial	 and	 utilities) and to advise the Minister on the formulation of policies in respect thereof and for that purpose, the Authority may— (a) lead, co-ordinate, monitor and evaluate the implementation of the policies, strategies, activities and development of investment in the manufacturing and services sectors (excluding	financial	and	utilities);	 (b) undertake activities relating to the promotion of investment in the	manufacturing	and	services	sectors	(excluding	financial	 and utilities) within or outside Malaysia; 

11Malaysian Investment Developm ent Authority (Incorporation) (c) undertake or cause to be undertaken research and planning on matters relating to investment in the manufacturing and services	sectors	(excluding	financial	and	utilities);	 (d) advise the Government on the policies relating to the promotion of investment in the manufacturing and services sectors	(excluding	financial	and	utilities)	including	policies	 on— (i) the granting of manufacturing licences; (ii) the incentives applicable to investors in Malaysia; (iii) expatriate posts; (iv) the imposition or alteration of, and exemption from, custom duties; and 	 (v)	 any	other	fiscal	or	non-fiscal	facilities;	 (e) formulate measures for the promotion of investment in the manufacturing	and	services	sectors	(excluding	financial	and	 utilities); (f) co-ordinate and facilitate the activities relating to the promotion and implementation of investment in the manufacturing	and	services	sectors	(excluding	financial	and	 utilities) at the Federal and State levels; (g) provide consultancy services including training and technical assistance; (h) undertake any activity that promotes co-operation with other countries in line with the objectives of the Government with respect to investment in the manufacturing and services sectors	(excluding	financial	and	utilities);	 (i) assist Malaysian companies in seeking technology and investment opportunities abroad; (j) act as a centre for collection, reference and dissemination of information relating to investment across all sectors of the economy; 

12 Laws of Malaysia Ac t 397 (k) report periodically to the Minister on the progress and problems of investment in the manufacturing and services sectors	 (excluding	 financial	 and	 utilities)	 in	 Malaysia	 and make recommendations on the manner in which such problems may be dealt with; (l) carry out any other functions consistent with this Act as the Minister may authorize in writing; and (m) generally do all such matters incidental to or consequential upon the exercise of its powers or the performance of its functions under this Act. Powers of the Authority 6A. (1) The Authority shall have all such powers as may be reasonably necessary for, or incidental to, the performance of its functions. (2) In particular, but without prejudice to the generality of subsection (1), the Authority may— (a) conduct surveys and investigations to ensure compliance with conditions imposed for the grant of licences, permits or incentives in respect of manufacturing and services sectors (excluding	financial	and	utilities); (b) require any person dealing with manufacturing and services sectors	(excluding	financial	and	utilities)	or	any	other	activity	 relating to the functions of the Authority to submit reports; (ba) require— (i) all relevant Government Entities to give such assistance and submit such information in their possession as may be required by the Authority in order for the Authority to carry out its functions under this Act; and (ii) all Government Entities, companies and corporations, and other bodies or persons, whether local or foreign, responsible for or engaged in carrying out or intending to carry out development in Malaysia to submit reports, containing such particulars and information as	may	be	specified	by	the	Authority,	regarding	their	 activities or proposed activities;

13Malaysian Investment Developm ent Authority (Incorporation) (bb) establish advisory panels to advise the Authority on the future direction and development of the manufacturing and services	sectors	(excluding	financial	and	utilities); (c) charge fees for any services or facilities provided by the Authority; and (d) generally undertake such other powers incidental to or consequential upon the exercise of its powers or the performance of its functions under this Act. Board to perform functions and exercise powers of the Authority 6b. The Board shall perform the functions and exercise the powers of the Authority under this Act and any function so performed or any power so exercised shall be deemed to be performed or exercised by the Authority. 7. (Deleted by Act A1146). Power to delegate 7A. (1) The Board may, subject to such terms, limitations or restrictions as	it	deems	fit	to	impose,	delegate	to	the	Chairman,	the	Chief	Executive	 Officer	or	to	any	other	member	the	power	and	authority	to	exercise	or	 perform on its behalf such powers or functions of the Board under this Act as it may determine, except the power to make regulations, and any power or function so exercised or performed by the Chairman or the	Chief	Executive	Officer	or	the	member,	as	the	case	may	be,	shall	be	 deemed to have been exercised by and on behalf of the Board. (2) Without prejudice to the generality of subsection (1) and to the other provisions of this Act, the Board may delegate to either the	Chairman	or	to	the	Chief	Executive	Officer	authority	to	sanction	 expenditure from any moneys vested in and under the control of the Board up to such limit as the Minister shall specify. Power to appoint committees 7b. (1) The Board may appoint committees to assist it in relation to the	 selection	 and	 recruitment	 of	 officers	 and	 servants,	 disciplinary	 matters,	financial	and	audit	matters	and	such	other	matters	arising	out	 of or connected with the operation of the Authority.

14 Laws of Malaysia Ac t 397 (2) Committees appointed under subsection (1) shall regulate their own procedure. (3) Committees appointed under subsection (1) shall conform to any instructions from time to time given to it by the Board and the Board may at any time discontinue or alter the constitution of any committee so appointed. (4) A committee shall report its recommendations to the Board. Power to establish companies 7c. The Authority may, with the approval of the Minister, establish companies under the Companies Act 1965 [ Act 125] to carry out and have the charge, conduct and management of any project, scheme, or enterprise which has been planned or undertaken by the Authority in the performance of its functions or the exercise of its powers. 8. (Deleted by Act A1146). 9. (Deleted by Act A1146). Malaysian Investment Development Authority Fund 10. (1) For the purposes of this Act, there is established a fund to be known as the “Malaysian Investment Development Authority Fund”, to be administered and controlled by the Board. (2) The Fund shall consist of— (a) such sums as may be provided from time to time by the Government; (b) moneys earned by the Authority in the performance of any of its functions; (c) donations and contributions received from within or outside Malaysia; and (d) all other moneys belonging to or which may in any manner become payable to the Authority in respect of any matter incidental to its functions and powers.

15Malaysian Investment Developm ent Authority (Incorporation) Expenditure to be charged on the Fund 10A. The Fund shall be expended for the purposes of— (a) paying any fees, costs or expenses lawfully incurred by the Authority, including the remuneration, superannuation and other	allowances,	pensions	or	gratuities	of	officers,	servants	 or agents of the Authority; (b) paying any other costs or expenditure properly incurred or accepted by the Authority in the exercise of its powers or in the performance of its functions; (c) giving grants,	loans	or	any	financial	assistance	to	members	 of the private sector for purposes approved by the Minister; (ca) giving	financial	assistance	or	credit	facilities,	with	or	without	 interest, or any contribution to any person for educational purposes, scholarships or any other purposes subject to the approval of the Minister with the concurrence of the Minister of Finance; (d) granting loans for such purposes as may be prescribed by regulations	to	officers	and	servants		of	the	Authority;	and (e) generally, paying any expenses for carrying into effect the provisions of this Act. Investment 10A A. The moneys of the Authority, insofar as they are not required to be expended by the Authority under this Act, may be invested in such manner as the Minister may, with the concurrence of the Minister of Finance, approve. Deposit of the Fund 10b. The Authority may, with the approval of the Minister and the concurrence of the Minister of Finance, place the moneys of the Fund on	deposit	with	such	financial	institution	as	may	be	approved	by	the	 Minister.

16 Laws of Malaysia Ac t 397 Balancing revenue of the Fund 10c. It shall be the duty of the Board to perform its functions and exercise its powers under this Act so as to secure that the total revenues of the Authority are, subject to any directions given by the Minister under	section	5,	sufficient	to	meet	all	sums	properly	chargeable	to	its	 revenue account including depreciation and interest on capital taking one year with another. Expenditure and preparation of estimates 10d. (1) Before the beginning of September of each year the Board shall submit to the Minister an estimate of the expenditure (including expenditure for development projects) for the following year in such form and containing such particulars as the Minister may direct; and the Minister shall, before the beginning of the following year, notify the Authority of the amount authorised for expenditure generally or of the amount authorised for each description of expenditure. (2) The Board may at any time submit to the Minister a supplementary estimate for any one year and the Minister may allow the whole or any part of the additional expenditure. Statutory Bodies (Accounts and Annual Reports) Act 1980 11. The Statutory Bodies (Accounts and Annual Reports) Act 1980 [Act 240] shall apply to the Authority. Annual Report 12. (1) The Authority shall as soon as practicable after the end of each	financial	year,	furnish	to	the	Minister	a	report	dealing	with	the	 activities of the Authority during the preceding year and containing such information relating to the proceedings and policy of the Authority as the Minister may from time to time require. (2) The Minister shall cause a copy of every such report to be laid on the table of each House of Parliament.

17Malaysian Investment Developm ent Authority (Incorporation) Application of Penal Code and obligation of secrecy 13. (1)	 Every	 member,	officer,	servant	 and	 agent	 of	 the	Authority	 and every member of a committee appointed under section 7 b, while discharging	his	duties	as	such	member,	officer,	servant	or	agent,	shall	 be deemed to be a public servant within the meaning of the Penal Code. (2) Except for the purposes of this Act or of any criminal proceedings under	this	Act,	no	member,	officer,	servant	or	agent	of	the	Authority	 shall disclose any information with respect to any individual business, which has been obtained by him in the course of his duties and which is not published in pursuance of this Act; and a person contravening this subsection shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to imprisonment for a term not exceeding two years or to a fine	not	exceeding	fifty	thousand	ringgit or to both. (3) (Deleted by Act A1146). Non-liability 13A. No	member	or	member	of	the	Authority’s	committees	or	officer,	 servant or agent of the Authority shall incur personal liability for any loss or damage caused by any act in administering the affairs of the Authority, unless the loss or damage is occasioned by an intentionally wrongful act or omission on his part. Public Authorities Protection Act 1948 13b. The Public Authorities Protection Act 1948 [Act 198] shall apply to any action, suit, prosecution or proceeding against the Authority or	 against	 any	 member,	officer,	servant	 or	 agent	 of	 the	Authority	 in	 respect of any act, neglect or default done or committed by him in such capacity. Regulations 14. (1) The Minister, on the recommendation of the Board, may make such regulations as may be necessary or expedient for the better carrying into effect of the purpose and provisions of this Act.

18 Laws of Malaysia Ac t 397 (2) In particular and without prejudice to the generality of subsection (1), such regulations may provide for— (a) the fees to be imposed by the Authority under this Act; (b) the remuneration, allowances and conditions of service of officers	and	servants	of	the	Authority; (c) the	payment	of	pensions,	allowances	or	gratuities	to	officers	 and servants of the Authority; (d) the	manner,	terms	and	purposes	of	loans	granted	to	officers	 and servants of the Authority; and (e) such other matters which may be prescribed by the Authority under this Act. Sc h e d u l e [Subsection 3a(3)] Meeting 1. (1) The quorum for a meeting of the Board shall be seven. (2) If on any question to be determined by the Board there is an equality of votes, the Chairman or other member acting as Chairman shall have a casting vote. (3) Subject to subparagraphs (1) and (2), the Board shall determine its own procedure. Common seal 2. (1) The Authority shall have a common seal which shall bear such device as the Board shall approve and such seal may be broken, changed, altered or made anew as the	Board	may	think	fit. (2) The seal of the Authority shall be authenticated by the Chairman and one other member, and all deeds, documents and other instruments purporting to be sealed with the authenticated seal shall, until the contrary is shown, be deemed to have been validly executed.

19Malaysian Investment Developm ent Authority (Incorporation) (3) Notwithstanding subparagraph (2), any document or instrument which if executed by a person not being a body corporate would not be required to be under seal may in like manner be executed by the Board; and such document or instrument may	be	executed	on	behalf	of	the	Authority	by	any	officer	or	servant	of	the	Authority	 generally or specially authorised by the Board in that behalf. (4) Until a seal provided by the Board, a stamp bearing the words “Malaysian Investment Development Authority” may be used and shall be deemed to be the common seal. (5) The common seal shall be kept in the custody of the Chairman or such other person as may be authorised by the Board. 	 (6)	 The	seal	of	the	 Authority	shall	be	officially	and	judicially	noticed. Minutes 3. (1) The Board shall cause minutes of all its meetings to be maintained and kept in a proper form. (2) Minutes made of meetings of the Board shall, if duly signed, be admissible in evidence in all legal proceedings without further proof and every meeting of the Board in respect of the proceedings of which minutes have been so made shall be deemed to have been duly convened and held and all members shall be deemed to have	been	duly	qualified	to	act. Validity of acts and proceedings 4. No act done or proceedings taken under this Act shall be questioned on the ground of— (a) any vacancy in the membership, or any defect in the constitution, of the Board; or (b) any omission, defect or irregularity not affecting the merit of the case. Disclosure of interest 5. A member having whether directly or indirectly any interest in any company or undertaking with which the Authority proposes to make any contract or whether directly or indirectly having any interest in any such contract or in any matter under discussion by the Board shall disclose to the Board the fact of his interest and the nature of the interest, and such disclosure shall be recorded in the minutes of the meetings of the Board and, unless specially authorised by the Chairman, the member shall take no part in any deliberation or decision of the Board relating to the contract or matter.

20 Laws of Malaysia Ac t 397 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 397 MALAYSIAN INVESTMENT DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY (INCORPORATION) ACT 1965 LIST OF AMENDMENTS Amending law Short title In force from Act A123 Federal Industrial Development Authority (Incorporation) (Amendment) Act 1972 041972 Act 160 Malaysian Currency (Ringgit) Act 1975 291975 Act A455 Federal Industrial Development Authority (Change of Name and Amendment) Act 1979 021979 Act A1146 Malaysian Industrial Development Authority (Incorporation) (Amendment) Act 2002 152002 Act A1399 Malaysian Industrial Development Authority(Incorporation) (Amendment) Act 2011 192011

21Malaysian Investment Developm ent Authority (Incorporation)LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 397 MALAYSIAN INVESTMENT DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY (INCORPORATION) ACT 1965 LIST OF SECTIONS AMENDED Section Amending authority In force from Long title Act A1399 192011 1 Act A1399 192011 2 Act A1146 152002 Act A1399 192011 3 Act A1146 152002 Act A1399 192011 3a-3e Act A1146 152002 3a Act A1399 192011 3d Act A1399 192011 4 Act A1146 152002 5 Act A1146 152002 6 Act A1146 152002 Act A1399 192011 6a-6b Act A1146 152002 6a Act A1399 192011 7 Act A1146 152002 7a-7b Act A1146 152002 Act A1399 192011 7c Act A1399 192011 8 Act A1146 152002

22 Laws of Malaysia Ac t 397 Section Amending authority In force from 9 Act A1146 152002 10 Act A1146 152002 Act A1399 192011 10a-10d Act A1146 152002 10a Act A1399 192011 10a a Act A1399 192011 11 Act A1146 152002 12 Act A1399 192011 13 Act 160 291975 Act A1146 152002 Act A1399 192011 13a-13b Act A1146 152002 14 Act A1146 152002 Schedule A1146 152002 Act A1399 192011 Hakcipta Pencetak H PERCETAKAN NASIONAL MALAYSIA BERHAD Semua Hak Terpelihara. Tiada mana-mana bahagian jua daripada penerbitan ini boleh diterbitkan semula atau disimpan di dalam ben tuk yang boleh diperolehi semula atau disiarkan dalam sebarang bentuk dengan apa jua cara elektronik, mekanikal, fotokopi, rakaman dan/ atau sebaliknya tanpa mendapat izin daripada Percetakan Nasional Malaysia Berhad (Pencetak kepada Kerajaan Malaysia yang dilantik). DICETAK OLEH PERCETAKAN NASIONA L MALAYSIA BERHAD, KUALA LUMPUR BAGI PIHAK DAN DENGAN PERINT AH KERAJAAN MALA YSIA WjW003218 032014