LAWS OF MALAYSIA ONLINE VERSION OF UPDATED TEXT OF REPRINT Act 800 EMPLOYMENT INSURANCE SYSTEM ACT 2017 As at 1 September 2022 This text is ONLY AN UPDATED TEXT of the Employment Insurance System Act 2017 by the Attorney General’s Chambers. Unless and until reprinted pursuant to the powers of the Commissioner of Law Revision under subsection 14(1) of the Revision of Laws Act 1968 [Act 1], this text is NOT AN AUTHENTIC TEXT. 

2 EMPLOYMENT INSURANCE SYSTEM ACT 2017 Date of Royal Assent … … … … 27 December 2017 Date of publication in the Gazette … … … … 28 December 2017 Latest amendment made by Act A1657 which came into operation on … … … … 1 September 2022 

 3 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 800 EMPLOYMENT INSURANCE SYSTEM ACT 2017 ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS PART I PRELIMINARY Section 1. Short title and commencement 2. Application 3. Interpretation PART II ADMINISTRATION OF EMPLOYMENT INSURANCE SYSTEM 4. Administration of Employment Insurance System 5. Director General 6. Powers of Organization to hold properties, etc. 7. Exercise of functions and powers of Organization PART III COMMITTEES 8. Employment Insurance Committee 9. Establishment of committees 10. Non-eligibility for appointment as members of Employment Insurance Committee or committees 11. Cessation of membership of Employment Insurance Committee or committees 

4 Laws of Malaysia ACT 800 Section 12. Disclosure of interest PART IV REGISTRATION AND CONTRIBUTIONS 13. Determination of industry 14. Registration of industry 15. Employers deemed registered 16. All employees to be registered and insured 17. Employees deemed registered 18. Contributions 19. Contributions where employee has more than one employer 20. Payment of contributions 21. Interest on arrears of contributions 22. Assessment of contributions, arrears of contribution and interest in certain cases 23. Recovery of arrears of contributions and interest 24. Employer not to reduce wages, etc. 25. Power to appoint agent 26. Verification of contributions paid through agent PART V BENEFITS 27. Claim for benefits 28. Period for making claim for benefits 29. Determination of period for making claim for benefits 30. Loss of employment 31. Determination on question of loss of employment 32. Determination on contributions qualifying conditions 

 Employment Insurance System 5 Section 33. Approval of claim for benefits 34. Job search allowance 35. Early re-employment allowance 36. Reduced income allowance 37. Training allowance and training fee 38. Benefits not transferable or attachable 39. Payment of benefits to dependant 40. Payment of training fee upon death of insured person 41. Suspension and termination of benefits 42. Repayment of benefits improperly received 43. Rights of insured person under other written laws PART VI RE-EMPLOYMENT PLACEMENT PROGRAMME 44. Re-employment placement programme 45. Power to establish centre or institute PART VII FINANCIAL PROVISIONS 46. Employment Insurance Fund 47. Expenditure to be charged on Fund 48. Expenditure on administration 49. Power to accept grants, donations, etc. 50. Power to invest 51. Power to borrow 52. Annual estimates 53. Accounts and reports 54. Audit 55. Annual report 56. Annual report and audited accounts to be laid 57. Valuation of assets and liabilities 

6 Laws of Malaysia ACT 800 Section 58. Imposition of surcharge PART VIII SOCIAL SECURITY APPELLATE BOARD 59. Matters to be decided by Appellate Board 60. Institution of proceedings, etc. 61. Commencement of proceedings 62. Powers of Appellate Board 63. Representation in proceedings before Appellate Board 64. Reference to High Court 65. Appeal 66. Stay of payment pending appeal PART IX EMPLOYMENT SERVICES OFFICER, ENFORCEMENT AND INVESTIGATION 67. Appointment and functions of Employment Services Officer 68. Power to examine training 69. Powers of enforcement, inspection and investigation 70. Power to require information and conduct inspection 71. Obstructing, etc., Director General, Deputy Directors General and Employment Services Officer 72. Fraud or forgery in connection with payment of contributions or claim for benefits 73. Giving false or misleading information or document 74. Court’s order in respect of contributions or benefits due and payable to Organization 75. Copy of entry to be prima facie evidence, and production of documents 76. Prosecution 77. Compounding of offences 

 Employment Insurance System 7 PART X GENERAL Section 78. Duty to keep returns, particulars, etc. 79. Appointment of collection agent 80. Engagement of auditors, actuaries, etc. 81. Public servant 82. Power of Organization to establish or take over companies 83. Power to exempt 84. Power to amend schedule 85. Power to make regulations 86. Disposal of documents after more than three years 87. Recommendations to review System 88. Offences by body corporate, etc. 89. Organization may deal with authorized person 90. Electronic submission of documents FIRST SCHEDULE SECOND SCHEDULE THIRD SCHEDULE FOURTH SCHEDULE 

 

 9 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 800 EMPLOYMENT INSURANCE SYSTEM ACT 2017 An Act to provide for the Employment Insurance System administered by the Social Security Organization to provide certain benefits and a re-employment placement programme for insured persons in the event of loss of employment which will promote active labour market policies, and for matters connected therewith. [1 January 2018, P.U. (B) 606/2017] ENACTED by the Parliament of Malaysia as follows: PART I PRELIMINARY Short title and commencement 1. (1) This Act may be cited as the Employment Insurance System Act 2017. (2) This Act comes into operation on a date to be appointed by the Minister by notification in the Gazette. Application 2. (1) This Act shall apply to all industries having one or more employees. (2) This Act shall not apply to persons described in the First Schedule. 

10 Laws of Malaysia ACT 800 Interpretation 3. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires— “required number of monthly contributions” means the number of monthly contributions paid in respect of an insured person irrespective of whether the contributions are made in consecutive months or not as specified in the Fourth Schedule; “contribution” means the sum of money payable to the Organization by an employer in respect of an insured person and includes any amount payable by or on behalf of the insured person in accordance with this Act; “early re-employment allowance” means an incentive paid i n lump sum to an insured person for accepting an offer of employment from any employer and commencing the employment within the waiting period or the period of receiving job search allowance at the rate as specified in the Third Schedule; “training allowance” means a monthly payment to an insured person for a period of not more than six months for attending any training in Malaysia provided by a training provider; “job search allowance” means a monthly payment for a period of three to six consecutive months to assist an insured person who has lost his employment during the period he is seeking for an employment; “reduced income allowance” means a lump sum payment to assist an insured person who has two or more employments and has lost one or more of his employments; “benefit” means a job search allowance, an early re -employment allowance, a reduced income allowance, a training allowance and a training fee; “wages” means all remunerations payable in money by an employer to an employee including any pa yment in respect of leave, holidays, overtime and extra work on holidays but does not include— 

 Employment Insurance System 11 (a) any contributions payable by the employer to any pension fund, social security fund or provident fund; (b) any traveling allowance or the value of any traveling concession; (c) any sum paid to the employee to pay for special expenses incurred as a result of his employment; (d) any gratuity payable on discharge or retirement; (e) any annual bonus; (f) any benefit under any other written law administered by the Organization; and (g) any other remuneration as prescribed; “Committee” means the Employment Insurance Committee established under section 8; “Appellate Board” means the Social Security App ellate Board constituted under section 83 of the Employees’ Social Security Act 1969 [Act 4]; “Director General” means the Director General of the Organization appointed under subsection 59(1) of the Employees’ Social Security Act 1969; “Fund” means the Employment Insurance Fund established under section 46; “Board” means the Social Security Organization Board established under section 59B of the Employees’ Social Security Act 1969; “employer” means the owner of an industry or the pers on with whom an employee has entered into a contract of service or apprenticeship and includes— 

12 Laws of Malaysia ACT 800 (a) a manager, an agent or a person responsible for the payment of wages to the employee; and (b) the legal representative of the owner of the industry or such person; “Minister” means the Minister charged with the responsibility for human resources; “insured person” means an employee who is registered under section 16 or deemed to have been registered under section 17 in respect of whom contributions are or have been paid, or are payable; “dependant” means a widow or widower, a child, a parent, a sibling under twenty-one years old or a grandparent of the deceased insured person; “officers and servants of the Organization” means the officers and servants of the Organization appointed under section 59L of the Employees’ Social Security Act 1969; “Employment Services Officer” means an officer appointed under section 67 and includes an Inspector; “employee” means a person who is employed for wages under a contract of service or apprenticeship with an employer, whether the contract is expressed or implied or is oral or in writing, on or in connection with the work of an industry to which this Act applies; “training provider” means any person who has a training facility to carry out trainings for the purposes of re -employment placement programme; “Inspector” means an Inspector appointed under section 12 of the Employees’ Social Security Act 1969 and includes the Director General and every Deputy Director General; “Organization” has the meaning assigned to it in the Employees’ Social Security Act 1969; 

 Employment Insurance System 13 “industry” includes any business, trade, undertaking, manufacture or calling of employers, and includes any calling, services, handicraft or industrial occupation of employees; “re-employment placement programme” means a programme managed by the Or ganization for insured persons for the purposes of re-employment of the insured persons; “System” means the Employment Insurance System established under section 4; “contributions qualifying conditions” means the required number of monthly contributions over an eligibility period as specified in the Fourth Schedule; “eligibility period” means a period comprising a certain number of consecutive months immediately preceding the loss of employment in respect of an insured person as specified in the Fourth Schedule; “waiting period” means the period of seven days from the date of the approval of a claim for benefits under section 33; “Deputy Director General” means t he Deputy Director General of the Organization appointed under subsection 59(2) of the Employees’ Social Security Act 1969 including those appointed in accordance with subsection 5(3); “minimum retirement age” has the meaning assigned to it in the Minimum Retirement Age Act 2012 [Act 753]. PART II ADMINISTRATION OF EMPLOYMENT INSURANCE SYSTEM Administration of Employment Insurance System 4. (1) There shall be a social security scheme to be known as the “Employment Insurance System”. 

14 Laws of Malaysia ACT 800 (2) The System shall be administered by the Organization. (3) For the purpose of administering the System, the Organization shall vest in the Board such powers and shall impose upon the Board such duties as the Organization may determine. Director General 5. (1) The Director General of the Organization shall be the Director General for the purposes of this Act. (2) The Deputy Directors General of the Organization shall be the Deputy Directors General for the purposes of this Act. (3) Notwithstanding subsection (2), the Minister may appoint one or more Deputy Directors General for the purposes of this Act. (4) If for any period the Director General is temporarily absent from Malaysia or temporarily incapacitated through illness, or for any other reasons is unable to perform his duties, or where the office of the Director General becomes vacant, the Minister shall appoint one of the Deputy Directors General to perform the duties of the Director General during such period. (5) The terms and conditions of the service of the Deputy Directors General appointed under subsection (3) shall be determined by the Minister after consultation with the Minister of Finance. Powers of Organization to hold properties, etc. 6. The Organization may, upon such terms and conditions as the Organization deems fit for the purposes of this Act— (a) enter into contracts; (b) acquire, purchase, take, hold and enjoy movable and immovable property of every description; and 

 Employment Insurance System 15 (c) convey, assign, surrender, yield up, charge, mortgage, demise, lease, reassign, transfer or otherwise dispose of, or deal with, any movable or immovable property or any interest vested in the Organization. Exercise of functions and powers of Organization 7. (1) All functions including powers which may be exercised by the Organization under this Act shall be exercised by the Director General. (2) Notwithstanding subsection (1), the Director General may, in writing, delegate any of his powers and functions subject to such terms and restrictions as he thinks fit to the Deputy Directors General, Employment Services Officers, or officers and serv ants of the Organization for the purposes of this Act. PART III COMMITTEES Employment Insurance Committee 8. (1) A committee by the name of “Employment Insurance Committee” is established. (2) The function of the Committee is to advise the Board on all matters relating to the System including the rates of contribution, benefits and the employees to be insured under this Act, and on matters relating to the investment of the Fund. (3) The Committee shall consist of the following members: (a) the Chairman of the Board who shall be the Chairman; (b) the Director General who shall be the Deputy Chairman; 

16 Laws of Malaysia ACT 800 (c) one member representing the Ministry responsible for human resources; (d) one member representing the Ministry responsible for finance; (e) one member representing the Prime Minister’s Office responsible for economic planning; (f) one member representing the department responsible for labour in Peninsular Malaysia; (g) one member representing the department responsible for labour in Sabah; (h) one member representing the department responsible for labour in Sarawak; (i) one member representing the department responsible for industrial relations; (j) one member representing the department responsible for skills development; (k) one member representing the Institute of Labour Market Information and Analysis; (l) not more than three members of any association or trade union representing employees w ho shall be appointed by the Minister; (m) not more than three members of any association or trade union representing employers who shall be appointed by the Minister; (n) not more than three other members with experience, knowledge and reasonable ex pertise in employment insurance, labour matters and investment who shall be appointed by the Minister. 

 Employment Insurance System 17 (4) The Minister may revoke the appointment of any member of the Committee appointed under paragraphs (3)(l), (m) and (n). (5) Any member appointed by the Minister under paragraph (3)(l), (m) or (n) may, at any time, resign as a member of the Committee by giving written notice to the Minister. (6) The members of the Committee shall be paid such allowances and other expenses as the Board may determine. (7) A member of the Committee shall hold office on such conditions and for such terms as may be specified in his letter of appointment and is eligible for reappointment for any term as the Board may determine. (8) The Committee shall meet at least three times in each year. (9) The quorum for a meeting of the Committee shall be nine persons including the chairman of the meeting. (10) The Committee may invite any person to attend any meeting of the Committee for the purpose of advising the Committee on any matter under discussion but that person shall not be entitled to vote at the meeting. (11) Any person invited under subsection (10) may be paid such allowances as the Board may determine. (12) Subject to this Act, the Committee may determine its own procedures. (13) The Organization shall appoint a secretary and assistant secretary to the Committee who shall be from amongst the officers and servants of the Organization. Establishment of committees 9. (1) The Board may establish any committee as the Board deems necessary or expedient to advise and assist the Board in the 

18 Laws of Malaysia ACT 800 performance of its functions and in the exercise of its powers under this Act. (2) The Board may delegate its functions and powers to any such committee subject to such terms and restrictions as the Board considers fit. (3) Any committee established under subsection (1)— (a) shall be chaired by the Chairman of the Board; (b) shall conform to and act in accordance with any direction given to the committee by the Board; and (c) may determine its own procedure. (4) The members of the committee established under subsection (1) may be appointed from amongst the members of the Board or such other persons as the Board thinks fit. (5) The members of the committee shall be paid such allowances and other expenses as the Board may determine. (6) A member of the committee shall hold office on such conditions and for such terms as may be specified in his letter of appointment and is eligible for reappointment for any term as the Board may determine. (7) The Board may revoke the appointment of any member of the committee. (8) A member of a committee may, at any time, resign by giving written notice to the Chairman of the committee. (9) The Board may, at any time, discontinue or alter the constitution of a committee. (10) A committee shall hold its meetings at such times and places as the Chairman of the committee may determine. 

 Employment Insurance System 19 (11) A committee may invite any person to attend any meeting of the committee for the purpose of advising the committee on any matter under discussion but that person shall not be entitled to vote at the meeting. (12) Any person invited under subsection (11) may be paid such allowances as the Board may determine. Non-eligibility for appointment as members of Employment Insurance Committee or committees 10. The following persons are not eligible to be appointed as or become a member of the Committee, or any committee established under section 9: (a) a person who has been convicted of an offence involving fraud, cheating, criminal breach of trust, criminal misappropriation of property or any offence involving dishonesty or moral turpitude and sentenced to imprisonment for a term not less than one year; (b) a bankrupt; and (c) a person of unsound mind or is otherwise unable to carry out his functions. Cessation of membership of Employment Insurance Committee or committees 11. A member of the Committee, or any committee established under section 9, shall cease to be a member if he fails to attend three consecutive meetings without leave of the Chairman of the Committee or committee, as the case may be. Disclosure of interest 12. If any member of the Committee, or committee established under section 9, has any direct or indirect interest in any matter being 

20 Laws of Malaysia ACT 800 considered by the Committee or committee established under section 9, as the case may be, he shall forthwith declare to the Chairman the nature and extent of his interest in the matter and the member shall not be present or take part in any discussion or decision of the Committee or committee established under section 9, as the case may be, about the matter. PART IV REGISTRATION AND CONTRIBUTIONS Determination of industry 13. The Organization may, on the basis of any information or evidence available to the Organization, determine whether any activity carried out by any person falls within the meaning of “industry” to which this Act applies. Registration of industry 14. (1) Every employer shall register his industry to which this Act applies with the Organization within such period and in such manner as prescribed. (2) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding ten thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding two years or to both. Employers deemed registered 15. Notwithstanding subsection 14(1), an employer that has registered his industry with the Organization in accordance with the Employees’ Social Security Act 1969 before the coming into operation of this Act shall be deemed to have registered his indus try under this Act on the date this Act comes into operation. 

 Employment Insurance System 21 All employees to be registered and insured 16. (1) All employees in the industries to which this Act applies shall be registered and insured by the employers— (a) in the case of employees who are employed on or before the date the industries are registered under section 14, on the date the industries of the employers are so registered; and (b) in the case of employees who are employed after the date the industries are registered under section 14 or 15, within thirty days from the date the employees enter into employment, in such manner as prescribed irrespective of the amount of wages. (2) Notwithstanding subsection (1), if the wages of an employee at any time exceed five thousand ringgit a month, his wages shall for the purposes of this Act be deemed to be five thousand ringgit a month. (3) Notwithstanding that the employee in the industries to which this Act applies has not been registered in accordance with subsection (1), an employee in that industry shall be deemed to have been registered by the employer on the date the contribution is first paid by his employer under this Act. (4) The employer referred to in subsection (3) shall not pay the contributions in respect of the employee for the months prior to the month the contribution is first paid. (5) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) commits an offence and shall, on convic tion, be liable to a fine not exceeding ten thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding two years or to both. Employees deemed registered 17. (1) Notwithstanding subsection 16(1), an employee in the industry to which the Employees’ Social Security Act 1969 applies that 

22 Laws of Malaysia ACT 800 has been registered with the Organization in accordance with the Employees’ Social Security Act 1969 before the coming into operation of this Act shall be deemed to have been registered under this Act on the date this Act comes into operation. (2) The registration of the employees referred to in subsection (1) shall be subject to the First Schedule. Contributions 18. (1) The contributions payable under this Act in respect of an employee shall comprise a contribution payable by the employer and a contribution payable by the employee. (2) The contributions payable under this Act shall be paid to the Organization at the rates as specified in the Second Schedule based on the amount of the monthly wages of the employee insured under this Act. (3) The Minister may revise the rates of contrib ution after taking into consideration the sustainability of the Fund. (4) Notwithstanding subsection (2), the Minister may, by order published in the Gazette and subject to such conditions, determine— (a) the minimum rate of contribution to be paid b y an employer in respect of an employee based on the amount of the monthly wages of the employee insured in accordance with the Second Schedule; and (b) the minimum rate of benefits to be provided by the Organization based on the amount of the assumed monthly wages of the employee insured in accordance with the Third Schedule. Contributions where employee has more than one employer 19. If an employee has two or more employers, every employer shall pay the contributions in respect of the employee separately. 

 Employment Insurance System 23 Payment of contributions 20. (1) A contribution shall be paid in respect of an employee registered under section 16 or deemed to have been registered under section 17 every month for the wages payable to the employee for that month within such period and in such manner as prescribed. (2) The contributions payable in respect of an employee shall cease when the employee attains the minimum retirement age. Interest on arrears of contributions 21. If the amount of the monthly contribu tion payable by the employer in respect of an employee under section 18 is not paid within such period as referred to in section 20, the employer shall be liable to pay interest on such amount to the Organization at the rate as prescribed by the Minister in respect of any period during which such amount remains unpaid. Assessment of contributions, arrears of contribution and interest in certain cases 22. (1) An Employment Services Officer may assess any contribution, arrears of such contribution or interest on arrears of such contribution which is due from any employer based on any information available if the employer— (a) fails to pay the contribution, arrears on such contribution or interest on arrears of such contribution payable in respect of an employee; and (b) fails to— (i) keep or maintain any return, particulars, register book or record pertaining to each empl oyee as 

24 Laws of Malaysia ACT 800 required to be kept or maintained by the employer under this Act; or (ii) submit any return, particulars, register book or record pertaining to each employee as required under this Act. (2) The Employment Services Officer shall serve the assessment made under subsection (1) on the employer either personally or by registered post. Recovery of arrears of contributions and interest 23. (1) The Organization may recover any arrears of contributions or interest on arrears of contributions from the employers as a debt due to the Organization. (2) The amount of contributions, arrears of contributions or interest on arrears of contributions pay able in respect of an employee as assessed under subsection 22(1) shall be conclusive evidence of such amount. (3) The employer shall pay any arrears of contributions in respect of an employee to the Organization and the employer is entitled to recover the contributions payable by the employee in respect of the arrears from the employee for the period of not more than six months. Employer not to reduce wages, etc. 24. (1) Employer shall not, solely by reason of his liability for any contributions payable under this Act, directly or indirectly, reduce the wages of any employee, or discontinue or reduce benefits payable to the employee under the conditions of service which are similar to the benefits conferred by this Act except as provided for in any other written law. 

 Employment Insurance System 25 (2) Any employer who contravenes subsection (1) commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding ten thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding two years or to both. Power to appoint agent 25. (1) The Organization may appoint such number of agents subject to such terms and conditions to collect and receive payment of contributions on behalf of the Organization. (2) The agents appointed under subsection (1) shall, as soon as practicable, inform the Organization the actual time and date of the payment of the contributions made by the employer. (3) Any agent who contravenes subsection (2) commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding ten thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding two years or to both. Verification of contributions paid through agent 26. Any contribution paid to the Organization by an employer through any agent appointed under section 25 shall be verified by the Organization. PART V BENEFITS Claim for benefits 27. Every claim for benefits under this Act shall be submitted in such manner to the Organization with such evidence in support of the claim as prescribed. 

26 Laws of Malaysia ACT 800 Period for making claim for benefits 28. An insured person who considers that he has lost his employment shall submit an application for claim for benefits to the Organization within sixty days from the date he considers that he has lost his employment. Determination of period for making claim for benefits 29. (1) Upon receipt of the claim for b enefits under section 28, the Organization shall determine the date on which the insured person has lost his employment. (2) If a claim for benefits is made after the period of sixty days from the date determined under subsection (1), the Organization s hall reject the claim and notify the insured person in writing in such manner as prescribed. (3) If the claim for benefits is rejected under subsection (2), the claim for benefits shall be deemed to have never been made by the insured person. Loss of employment 30. (1) Loss of employment occurs if the contract of service of an insured person is terminated or becomes void due to any reason other than the following: (a) the voluntary resignation by the insured person; (b) the expiry of the contract of service of the insured person; (c) termination of the contract of service by mutual consent of the employer and the insured person without terms and conditions; 

 Employment Insurance System 27 (d) completion of the work in accordance with the terms of the contract of service; (e) the retirement of the insured person; or (f) the termination of contract of service of the insured person due to misconduct. (2) For the purpose of paragraph (1) (a), “voluntary resignation” means an act by an insured person to terminate his contract of service with an employer at any time during the period of the contract of service other than the following: (a) a resignation under a voluntary separation scheme by mutual consent of the employer and the insured person; (b) a resignation tantamount to a constructive dismissal or a resignation due to willful breach of the terms and conditions of the contract of service by the employer; (c) a resignation due to any threat to the insured person or family of the insured person, or sexual harassment towards the insured person; (d) a resignation due to a command by the employer to perform work outside the scope of work which endangers the health and safety of the insured person; or (e) a resignation due to the closure of the workplace or the workplace is not in operation because of natural disaster, riot, civil commotion, demonstration or other similar situation, or the workplace becomes unsafe due to fire, gas leak or other similar dangerous situation. Determination on question of loss of employment 31. (1) Any question or dispute on whether loss of employment has occurred shall be determined by the Organization. 

28 Laws of Malaysia ACT 800 (2) For the purpose of determination under subsection (1), the Director General or any officer of the Organization authorized by the Director General may refer to any authorities under any written laws for the verification of the loss of employment in relation to any claim for benefits by an insured person under this Act. (3) If the Organization determines that loss of employment has not occurred, the claim for benefits shall be rejected and the claim for benefits shall be deemed to have never been made by t he insured person. Determination on contributions qualifying conditions 32. (1) After the Organization determines that the insured person has lost his employment under section 31, the Organization shall determine whether— (a) the insured person f ulfils the contributions qualifying conditions in respect of the claim for benefits as specified in the Fourth Schedule; and (b) the insured person has not attained the minimum retirement age, on the date he lost his employment. (2) For the purpose of calculating the required number of monthly contributions, the contribution payable for the month the insured person has lost his employment shall be taken into account irrespective of whether wages for the month are paid to the insured person or not. (3) If before an insured person lost his employment he receives monthly temporary disablement benefits under the Employees’ Social Security Act 1969 and the employer does not pay any wages to the insured person— 

 Employment Insurance System 29 (a) the monthly contribution shall be de emed to have been made in respect of the insured person during the period he receives the temporary disablement benefits; and (b) the period in which the insured person receives the temporary disablement benefits shall be calculated as part of the eligibility period. (4) If an insured person has made any claim for benefits and the claim for benefits has been approved by the Organization under section 33 and thereafter the insured person makes a subsequent claim for benefits in respect of another loss of employment, the contributions paid by such employer in respect of which the loss of employment relates shall be calculated for the purpose of the subsequ ent claim in accordance with the contributions qualifying conditions as specified in the Fourth Schedule. (5) The number of monthly contributions which has been taken into account for the purpose of determining the contributions qualifying conditions in respect of a claim for benefits by an insured person shall not be taken into account for any subsequent claim for benefits by such insured person. Approval of claim for benefits 33. (1) After considering the contributions qualifying conditions in respect of a claim for benefits by an insured person— (a) in the case where the contributions qualifying conditions is fulfilled, the Organization shall approve the claim for benefits; and (b) in the case where the contributions qualifying conditions is not fulfilled, the Organization shall reject the claim for benefits and the claim for benefits shall be deemed to have never been made by the insured person. 

30 Laws of Malaysia ACT 800 (2) The Organization shall notify its decision made under subsection (1) to the insured person. (3) After approving the claim for benefits under paragraph (1) (a), the Organization shall determine the relevant benefits to be provided to the insured person. Job search allowance 34. (1) Subject to sections 35 and 36, if the claim for benefi ts in respect of an insured person has been approved under section 33, the insured person shall be entitled to a job search allowance— (a) at the rate as specified in the Third Schedule; and (b) for the period which shall be in accordance with the contributions qualifying conditions in respect of the claim for benefits by the insured person as specified in the Fourth Schedule. (2) The payment for the job search allowance shall be made by the Organization immediately after the waiting period in such manner as prescribed. (3) If an insured person has attained the minimum retirement age, the payment for the job search allowance shall continue to be paid to the insured person if the loss of employ ment occurs before the minimum retirement age. (4) An insured person shall not be in any employment during the period of receiving the job search allowance. (5) If an insured person accepts an offer of employment by any employer during the period of receiving the job search allowance, the insured person shall notify the Organization within seven days from the date of acceptance of the offer. 

 Employment Insurance System 31 (6) Any person who contravenes subsection (4) or (5) commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable t o a fine not exceeding ten thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding two years or to both. Early re-employment allowance 35. (1) If an insured person— (a) accepts an offer of employment and reports duty for work within the waiting period; (b) accepts an offer of employment within the waiting period but reports duty for work within the period of receiving a job search allowance; or (c) accepts an offer of employment and reports duty for work within the period of receiving a job search allowance, the insured person shall be entitled to an early re -employment allowance at the rate as specified in the Third Schedule in such manner as prescribed. (2) If an insured person is entitled to an early re -employment allowance in accordance with paragraph (1)(b) or (c)— (a) the insured person shall be paid the early re -employment allowance on the month following the month the insured person has reported duty for work with an employer; and (b) the insured person shall be paid the job search allowance for the month in which the insured person reported duty for work. (3) In the case where an insured person accepts an offer of employment and reports duty for work within the waiting period, he may elect whether to accept the early re-employment allowance or not. 

32 Laws of Malaysia ACT 800 (4) If an insured person elects not to accept the early re - employment allowance under subsection (3), the contributions qualifying conditions in respect of the insured person shall not be affected and the claim for benefits shall be deemed to have never been made by the insured person. (5) No early re -employment allowance shall be paid by the Organization to an insured person after the period of receiving job search allowance expires. Reduced income allowance 36. (1) If an insured person has two or more employments at the same time and has lost one or more o f his employments, whether on the same date or not, but has not lost all of the employments— (a) the insured person shall be entitled to a reduced income allowance for each loss of employment— (i) at the rate as specified in the Third Schedule; and (ii) for the period which shall be in accordance with the contributions qualifying conditions in respect of the claim for benefits by the insured person as specified in the Fourth Schedule; and (b) the insured person shall not be entitled to a job search allowance, a training allowance or an early re-employment allowance. (2) The reduced income allowance shall be paid lump sum to the insured person. (3) If an insured person who has two or more employments at the same time— 

 Employment Insurance System 33 (a) has lost one or more of his employments, whether on the same date or not, but has not lost all of the employments; or (b) has lost all of the employments on the same date, each claim for benefits in respect of each loss of employment shall be treated as a separate claim for the purpose of determining the contributions qualifying conditions in respect of that insured person. (4) If an insured person who has two or more employments has lost all of the employments on the same date, he shall be entitled to one job search allowance for one loss of employment and a reduced income allowance for the other loss of employment. (5) In relation to his entitlement to the job search allowance under subsection (4), the insured person may elect the loss of employment in respect of which the job search allowance shall be paid. (6) If an insured person who has two or more employments has lost two or more of the employments on the same date, or all of the employments on the same date, the required number of monthly contributions— (a) shall be calculated based on the number of monthly contributions made by the employer in respect of whic h the loss of employment relates; and (b) shall not be based on the number of monthly contributions made by any or all of the employers in respect of the insured person. (7) If an insured person has lost his last employment and prior to that loss of employment he has been employed by two or more employers and has lost all the employments, the contributions made by the two or more employers may be taken into account in calculating the required number of monthly contributions in respect of the first-mentioned loss of employment provided that the contributions 

34 Laws of Malaysia ACT 800 made by the two or more employers have not been taken into account for the calculation of any reduced income allowance. Training allowance and training fee 37. (1) If an insured person has lost an employment, he may apply to the Organization to undergo any training provided by a training provider approved by the Organization— (a) within the period the insured person receives the job search allowance; (b) within the period of not more than twelve months after the period the insured person receives the job search allowance; or (c) within the period of six months after accepting an offer of employment and reporting duty for work. (2) The Organization may approve the application under subsection (1) subject to such conditions as determined by the Organization. (3) An insured person who attends any training provided by a training provider approved by the Organization shall be entitled to a training allowance which shall not be more than six months from the date as determined by the Organization at the rate as specified in the Third Schedule and in such manner as prescribed. (4) The maximum period of training in respect of an insured person shall be equivalent to the period of payment for the job search allowance which he is entitled to. (5) Any training fees charged to the insured person by a training provider under this section shall be borne by the Organization and the amount of the training fees shall be as specified in the Third Schedule. 

 Employment Insurance System 35 (6) The Organization shall pay the training fees to the training provider who provides the training to the insured person. (7) For the purpose of subsections (5) and (6), “training fees” means all costs relating to the training of an insured person including meals and materials for the training. Benefits not transferable or attachable 38. (1) The right to receive any benefit under this Act shall not be transferable or assignable. (2) No benefits payable under this Act shall be liable to attachment by any decree or order of any court. Payment of benefits to dependant 39. (1) If an insured person dies, is in coma or is of unsound mind— (a) after the insured person has mad e a claim for benefits under this Act; or (b) during the period which he is entitled to or is receiving a job search allowance, an early re -employment allowance, a reduced income allowance or a training allowance under this Act, the job search allowanc e, early re -employment allowance, reduced income allowance or training allowance shall be paid to his dependants in such manner as determined by the Organization. (2) If an insured person dies, is in coma or is of unsound mind in accordance with subsection (1), any training allowance that has been overpaid to the insured person for the remaining duration of his training after such circumstances occur shall not be recovered by the Organization. 

36 Laws of Malaysia ACT 800 Payment of training fee upon death of insured person 40. Upon the death of an insured person who is undergoing any training, the Organization shall pay the training fee to any training provider for the training that the insured person has attended as agreed between the Organization and the training provider. Suspension and termination of benefits 41. (1) The Organization may, at any time, suspend any benefit being received by an insured person if there is reasonable gro und to believe that— (a) the insured person has furnished false, untrue or incorrect particulars, documents or returns at the time of the claim for benefits is made or during the claim for benefits is being considered by the Organization under this Act; (b) the insured person is employed by any employer within the period of receiving the job search allowance; or (c) the insured person has contravened any provisions of this Act or the regulations made under this Act. (2) The Organization may suspend the payment of any benefit for a period of not more than sixty days. (3) If the Organization decides to suspend any benefit received by an insured person under subsection (1), the Organization shall carry out an inquiry in respect of the suspension. (4) After completion of the inquiry, if the Director General is satisfied that— (a) the insured person has not committed any of the acts referred to in subsection (1), the payment of any benefits suspended under subsection (3) shall forthwith be resumed; or 

 Employment Insurance System 37 (b) the insured person has commited any of the acts referred to in subsection (1), the payment of any benefits suspended under subsection (3) shall be terminated. Repayment of benefits improperly received 42. (1) Subject to section 39, where an insured person has received any benefit under this Act which he is not entitled to, he shall be liable to repay the amount of such benefit to the Organization, or in the case of the death of an insured person, the administra tor of the deceased insured person’s estate shall be liable to repay the amount of such benefit to the Organization from the deceased insured person’s estate. (2) The amount of the benefit received under subsection (1) shall be recovered as a debt due to the Organization. (3) Notwithstanding subsections (1) and (2), where any person has received any benefit under this Act which he is not entitled to, and subsequently becomes entitled to any other benefit under this Act, the Organization may set off the amount of the benefit which he is not entitled to against the amount of the other benefits which he becomes entitled to. Rights of insured person under other written laws 43. (1) Any claim for benefits made under this Act shall not operate as a bar to— (a) any representation for reinstatement of employment under the Industrial Relations Act 1967 [Act 177]; (b) any claim for termination or lay -off benefits payment under the Employment Act 1955 [ Act 265 ], the Labour Ordinance of Sabah [ Sabah Cap. 67 ] and the Labour Ordinance of Sarawak [Sarawak Cap. 76]; and 

38 Laws of Malaysia ACT 800 (c) any complaint relating to premature retirement under the Minimum Retirement Age Act 2012. (2) If an insured person makes a claim for benefits to the Organization under this Act and also makes a representation, claim or complaint under paragraph (1) (a), (b) or (c), as the case may be, the Organization shall hold the determination on the questio n of loss of employment in respect of the claim for benefits until the insured person’s representation, claim or complaint under paragraph (1)(a), (b) or (c) has been resolved. PART VI RE-EMPLOYMENT PLACEMENT PROGRAMME Re-employment placement programme 44. (1) Where an insured person makes a claim for benefits and the Organization has determined that the insured person has lost his employment, the insured person shall commence participation in the re-employment place ment programme within the waiting period in such manner as prescribed. (2) The insured person— (a) shall comply with any direction given by the Organization in respect of the re-employment placement programme; (b) shall be a person who is able and available to work, and actively seeking for work; and (c) shall undergo any training as determined by the Organization. (3) If there is any offer of employment from any employer that is suitable to the insured person, the Organization shall inform such offer to the insured person. 

 Employment Insurance System 39 (4) The insured person may accept the offer of employment under subsection (3) and shall inform the Organization of acceptance of the offer. (5) The insured person may refuse the offer of employment under subsection (3) if he has reasonable grounds for such refusal, and he shall inform the Organization of his refusal to accept the offer. (6) The Organization shall determine whether the refusal to accept the offer of employment under subsection (5) is based on reasonable grounds or otherwise. (7) If the Organization is satisfied that the refusal to accept the offer of employment under subsecti on (5) is based on unreasonable grounds— (a) the insured person shall lose his entitlement to receive any benefit under this Act; and (b) in the case where the insured person is receiving any benefit under this Act, the Organization shall terminate the payment of such benefit. Power to establish centre or institute 45. The Organization may establish any centre or institute for the purpose of providing the re -employment placement programme to insured persons. PART VII FINANCIAL PROVISIONS Employment Insurance Fund 46. (1) A fund to be known as the “Employment Insurance Fund” is established and shall be administered and controlled by the Organization. 

40 Laws of Malaysia ACT 800 (2) The Fund shall consist of— (a) contributions payable by employers and insured persons; (b) rents, interests, dividends and any other incomes derived from the assets of the Fund; (c) sums accruing to the Fund under this Act including the repayment of benefits; (d) moneys borrowed by the Organization under this Act; (e) fees and any interest on arrears of contributions imposed by or payable to the Organization under this Act; (f) moneys derived as income from the investment by the Organization under this Act; (g) moneys received by the Organization by way of grants, donations and gifts for the purpose of this Act; (h) moneys derived from the sale, disposal, lease or hire of, or any other dealing with, any property, mortgage, charge or debenture transferred to, vested in or acquired by the Organization; (i) other moneys and properties which may, in any manner, become payable to or vested in the Organization in respect of the performance of its functions and the exercise of its powers; (j) any costs paid to or recovered by the Organization in any settlement of action or proceedings, civil or criminal; and (k) all other moneys and properties lawfully received by the Organization. 

 Employment Insurance System 41 Expenditure to be charged on Fund 47. The Fund shall be expended for the following purposes: (a) the payment of benefits; (b) the payment of training fees to training providers in relation to the cost of training given by training providers to insured persons; (c) the payment of any ex penses properly incurred for the re-employment placement programme in respect of insured persons including expenses incurred for collaboration with any institution; (d) the payment of expenses for the evaluation and impact study of the System; (e) the establishment and maintenance of centres or institutes for the purposes of re-employment placement programme; (f) the payment of expenses or costs incurred by the Organization for the establishment of the Appellate Board for the purpose of this Act; (g) the payment of expenses or moneys required to satisfy any judgment, decision or award by any court or tribunal against the Organization, the Chairman of the Board, Director General, Deputy Directors General, any of the members of the Board, Committee or committees established under section 9, Employment Services Officer, and officers and servants of the Organization in respect of any act, neglect or default done or committed in the performance of the functions or the exercise of the powers of the Organization under this Act; (h) the payment of allowances and other expenses to the members of the Board, the Committee and committees established under section 9; 

42 Laws of Malaysia ACT 800 (i) the payment of legals fees and costs relating to any civil or criminal proceedings brought, instituted or maintained by or against the Organization under this Act; (j) the repayment of moneys borrowed under this Act and the interest or profit due on the borrowed moneys; (k) the establishment or taking over of a company under this Act and its maintenance; (l) the payment of other expenses and expenditure as may be permitted by this Act or any regula tions made under this Act, or incurred in the performance of the functions or the exercise of the powers of the Organization. Expenditure on administration 48. (1) Notwithstanding section 47, expenditure may be incurred by the Organization out of the Fund up to such amount as the Minister may authorize as prescribed, for any one year, for carrying on the administration of the System for the following purposes: (a) paying for salaries, bonus, leave and transfer expenses, travelling and compensatory allowances, gratuities and compassionate allowances, contributions to benefit fund, welfare and recreation of the officers and servants of the Organization including the g ranting of loans and advances, and expenditure in respect of offices and payment of other services provided under this Act or any regulations made under this Act; (b) paying for fees and other remunerations to any auditor, actuary, agent, technical advi ser, banker, stockbroker, surveyor, consultant or any other persons employed to carry into effect the purpose of this Act; 

 Employment Insurance System 43 (c) purchasing or hiring equipment, machinery and any other things including renting of any building or premises in the performance of its functions and in the exercise of its powers under this Act or any regulations made under this Act. (2) The Board may, subject to such conditions, limitations or restrictions as the Board thinks fit, delegate to the Chairman of the Board, Director General, Deputy Directors General, any of the members of the Board, Committee or committees established under section 9, Employment Services Officer, or officers and servants of the Organization, the authority to sanction expenditure from the Fund or any other moneys vested in and under the control of the Board up to such limit as the Board may determine. Power to accept grants, donations, etc. 49. The Organization may accept grants, donations, gifts or bequests made to or in favour of the Fund. Power to invest 50. (1) For the purpose of this section— “debentures” includes debenture stock, bond, note or other securities or obligations of a company, whether constituting a charge on the assets of the company or not and also includes the right to subscribe for any debenture; “shares” means the paid -up shares whether fully paid or not in the share capital of a company and includes stocks and rights to subscribe for any stock or shares. (2) The moneys in the Fund shall, in so far as the moneys are not immediately required to be expended by the Organization under this Act or any regulations made under this Act, be invested subject to such 

44 Laws of Malaysia ACT 800 terms and conditions as determined by the Minister afte r consultation with the Minister of Finance as follows: (a) in investments or securities authorized for the investment of trust funds by any written law; (b) in investment in shares and debentures in any public company the prices of which are quoted or sought to be quoted on the stock exchange established in Malaysia; (c) in such other investments or securities as the Board may decide based on the recommendation by the Committee. (3) The investments made under subsection (2) may be varied, transposed or realized from time to time. (4) The Minister may at any time, after consultation with the Minister of Finance, direct the vacation in part or in whole, or prohibit investment, in any security. (5) The power to invest under subsection (2) shall vest in the Board. (6) The Organization shall, with the approval of the Board and after consultation with the Minister of Finance, determine the procedure for investment of the Fund includ ing its transfer or realization, the bank in which the Fund may be deposited, the raising and repayment of loans and the financial control and procedures. Power to borrow 51. (1) The Organization may, with the consent of the Minister of Finance, borrow any money required by the Organization for meeting any of its obligations or performing any of its functions at such rate of interest and for such period and upon such terms and conditions as to the time and method of repayment and otherwise as the Minister may approve. 

 Employment Insurance System 45 (2) No moneys from any fund administered by the Organization under any other written law may be utilized for the purpose of borrowing under subsection (1). Annual estimates 52. (1) The Organization shall in each year prepare a budget showing the probable receipts and the estimate of the expenditure of the Organization for the ensuing year containing such adequate particulars as the Minister may determine for the discharge of the liab ilities incurred by the Organization and for the maintenance of a working balance under this Act. (2) The budget shall be submitted for the approval of the Minister before such date as he may fix. Accounts and reports 53. The Organization shall cause proper accounts of the Fund and proper records of its activities to be kept and shall, as soon as practicable after the end of each financial year, cause to be prepared for that financial year— (a) a statement of accounts of the Organization which shall include a balance sheet and an account of income and expenditure; and (b) a report of the works and activities of the Organization. Audit 54. (1) The accounts of the Organization shall be audited annually by the Auditor General. (2) The Auditor General or any person authorized by him shall at all reasonable times have access to the books, accounts and other 

46 Laws of Malaysia ACT 800 documents of the Organization and may, for the purpose of an audit, require any explanation and information from, or examine, any officer and servant of the Organization. (3) The Board shall forward to the Minister a copy of the auditor’s report and any observations together with a copy of th e audited accounts of the Organization. (4) The Minister may direct the Board to send a copy of the auditor’s report and any statement of accounts to any Government department and such statement of accounts to the Auditor General as necessary. Annual report 55. The Board shall submit to the Minister the annual report of the works and activities of the Organization before 30 June the following year unless otherwise extended by the Minister. Annual report and audited accounts to be laid 56. The Board shall cause the annual report and the audited accounts of the Organization to be laid before each House of Parliament. Valuation of assets and liabilities 57. (1) The Board shall, in every five years, cause an actuarial review to be carrie d out on the implementation of the System under this Act, involving a valuation of the assets and liabilities of the Organization, and such report shall be submitted to the Minister. (2) Notwithstanding subsection (1), the Minister may direct that such actuarial review and the valuation of the assets and liabilities to be made at any other time as he considers necessary. 

 Employment Insurance System 47 Imposition of surcharge 58. (1) The Organization may impose surcharge on any person who is or was in the employment of the Organi zation in such manner as determined by the Board if it appears to the Board that the person— (a) is or was responsible for any improper payment of moneys from the Fund or for any payment of such moneys which is not duly vouched; (b) is or was responsible for any deficiency in, or for the destruction of, any moneys, securities, stores or other properties of the Organization; (c) being or having been an accounting officer, fails or has failed to keep proper accounts or records; or (d) has failed to make any payment, or is or was responsible for any delay in the payment of money from the Fund to any person to whom such payment is due under any contract, agreement or arrangement entered into between that person and the Organization. (2) The Board shall, before a person is surcharged under subsection (1), serve on him a notice in writing calling on him to show cause why he should not be surcharged. (3) If a satisfactory explanation is not received within thirty days from the date of service of the notice under subsection (2), the Board may— (a) in the case of paragraphs (1)(a) and (b), surcharge against the person a sum not exceeding the amount not collected, or of the improper payment made, or of the deficiency in the value of, or loss of, the moneys, securities, stores or other properties of the Organization; and (b) in the case of paragraphs (1)(c) and (d), surcharge against the person such sum as the Board thinks fit. 

48 Laws of Malaysia ACT 800 (4) The Board shall cause the Director General to be notified of any surcharge made under subsection (1) and the Director General shall thereupon notify the person surcharged. (5) Notwithstanding subsections (3) and (4), the Board may at any time withdraw a ny surcharge in respect of which a satisfactory explanation has been received or if it otherwise appears that no surcharge should have been made, and the Board shall cause the Director General to be notified of the withdrawal and the Director General shall thereupon notify the person surcharged. (6) The amount of any surcharge made under subsection (3) and not withdrawn under subsection (5) shall be a civil debt due to the Organization from the person surcharged and may be sued for and recovered in any court at the suit of the Organization and may also if the Board so directs be recovered by deduction— (a) from the salary of the person surcharged; or (b) from the pension of the person surcharged, by equal monthly instalments not exceeding one -fourth of the total monthly salary or pension of that person, as the case may be. PART VIII SOCIAL SECURITY APPELLATE BOARD Matters to be decided by Appellate Board 59. (1) The Appellate Board shall have the power to decide in respect of any question, dispute, claim or appeal referred to the Appellate Board by any person relating to the following matters: (a) whether any person is an employee within the meaning of this Act; 

 Employment Insurance System 49 (b) whether an employer or employee is liable to pay contribution; (c) whether any activity carried out by any person is an industry within the meaning of this Act; (d) whether an insured person has lost an employment in accordance with this Act; (e) the wages or assumed monthly wages of an insured person for the purposes of this Act; (f) the rate of contribution payable by an employer in respect of his employee; (g) whether a person is or was an employer in respect of any employee; (h) the entitlement of any insured person to any benefit including the amount and duration of the benefit; (i) any claim by the Organization to recover any arrears of contributions from an employer; (j) any decision, order or direction made or issued by the Organization under this Act; (k) any claim by the Organization against any person to recover any benefit which has been paid out not in accordance with this Act; (l) any claim by the Organization against a training provider for any payment made by the Organization which has been paid to the training provider by mistake or fraudulently claimed by the training provider; or (m) any other matter which is in dispute— (i) between an employer and the Organization; 

50 Laws of Malaysia ACT 800 (ii) between an insured person and the Organization; (iii) between a training provider and the Organization; (iv) between an insured person and an employer; or (v) between an insured person or employer and a training provider. (2) Any question, disp ute, claim or appeal by an insured person, employer, training provider or any person in relation to any matter under this Act shall be filed to the Appellate Board for decision. (3) No civil court shall have jurisdiction to decide or deal with any question, dispute, claim or appeal referred to in subsection (1), or to adjudicate on any liability which is to be decided by the Appellate Board under this Act or any regulations under this Act. Institution of proceedings, etc. 60. (1) All proceedings before the Appellate Board shall be instituted in the Appellate Board established for the area in which the insured person was working at the time of the question, dispute, claim or appeal arises. (2) The Chairman of the Appellate Board may, upon application made by the parties to the Appellate Board, transfer any matter pending before him in a State or area to any other Appellate Board in another State or area and shall give his reasons for allowing or not allowing the application for transfer. (3) The Appellate Board to which any matter or proceedings is transferred under subsection (2) shall continue to decide on the matter or proceedings as if the matter or proceedings had been originally instituted in such Appellate Board. 

 Employment Insurance System 51 Commencement of proceedings 61. (1) The proceedings before an Appellate Board in respect of any question, dispute, claim or appeal referred to in section 59 shall be commenced by an application in the manner as prescribed. (2) Every application under subsection (1) shall be made within sixty days from the date on which the cause of action arises. (3) For the purpose of subsection (2)— (a) the cause of action in respect of a claim for benefits shall be deemed to a rise from the date the insured person received the written decision of the Organization on such claim; and (b) the cause of action in respect of any claim by the Organization for recovering contributions from an employer shall be deemed to arise from th e date of the evidence of contributions payable is due to be received by the Organization. Powers of Appellate Board 62. (1) The Appellate Board shall have all the powers of a Sessions Court Judge for the purposes of summoning and enforcing the attendance of witnesses, the discovery and production of documents and materials, administering oath and recording evidence. (2) All costs incidental to any proceedings before the Appellate Board is subject to the discretion of the Appellate Board. (3) An order of the Appellate Board shall be enforceable as if it was a judgment of a Sessions Court. 

52 Laws of Malaysia ACT 800 Representation in proceedings before Appellate Board 63. Any person may, at any proceedings before the Appellate Board except the appearance of the person for the purposes of his examination as a witness, appear personally or be represented by a legal practitioner, or by any person authorized in writing by the p erson, or where there is no authorization in writing, by any person allowed by the Appellate Board to appear on behalf of the person. Reference to High Court 64. The Appellate Board may submit any question of law for the decision of the High Court and the Appellate Board shall decide the question pending before the Appellate Board in accordance with such decision. Appeal 65. (1) No appeal shall be made to th e High Court against an order of the Appellate Board unless it involves a question of law or a mixed question of law and fact. (2) The appeal referred to in subsection (1) shall be made within sixty days from the date of the written order is made by the Appellate Board. Stay of payment pending appeal 66. Where the Organization has made an appeal against an order of the Appellate Board, the Appellate Board may, and if directed by the High Court shall, pending the decision of the appeal, withhold the order appealed against relating to the payment of any sum of money. 

 Employment Insurance System 53 PART IX EMPLOYMENT SERVICES OFFICER, ENFORCEMENT AND INVESTIGATION Appointment and functions of Employment Services Officer 67. (1) The Minister may appoint such number of Employment Services Officer who shall have the following functions: (a) to verify on loss of employment; (b) to carry out the re -employment placement programme including job search, job counselling, job mat ching, job placement, career advising and vocational training; (c) to collect, analyse and provide labour market information; (d) to undertake and coordinate studies on labour and labour market issues, including social security; (e) to perform any other functions as determined by the Organization from time to time. (2) The Director General may give any direction to any Employment Services Officer as he thinks necessary to ensure that the functions of the Employment Services Officer is performed in accordance with this Act. Power to examine training 68. The Employmen t Services Officer may examine any training provided by a training provider including the following: (a) any premises and facilities used for the training whether in compliance with any directions given by the Organization under this Act; 

54 Laws of Malaysia ACT 800 (b) any tra ining programme and duration of the training whether conducted as agreed by the Organization; (c) any document and record relating to the attendance of an insured person; and (d) any document and record relating to claims for training fees submitted by the training provider to the Organization. Powers of enforcement, inspection and investigation 69. (1) The Employment Services Officer shall have all the powers of a police officer of whatever rank as provided for under the Criminal Procedure Code [Act 593], except the power to arrest without warrant, in relation to enforcement, inspection and investigation, and such powers shall be in addition to the powers conferred by this Act and not in derogation thereof. (2) The Employment Services Officer may examine any person if the Employment Services Officer has reasonable grounds to believe that the person has relevant information or document relating to any industry. Power to require information and conduct inspection 70. (1) For the purpose o f obtaining information as to whether any person has made payment of contributions or any other information relating to a claim of benefits under this Act, the Director General or any officer of the Organization authorized by the Director General may, by n otice in writing, require any person who he has reasonable grounds to believe that the person has any information or document, or is capable of giving any evidence, that is relevant to the payment of contributions or to the claim for benefits under this Act— (a) to provide such information to the Director General or any officer of the Organization authorized by the Director 

 Employment Insurance System 55 General within such time as may be specified in the notice; or (b) to attend personally before the Director General or any officer of the Organization authorized by the Director General and to produce for examination any book, account, record and other documents including an electronic record as the Director General or any officer of the Organization authorized by the Director General deems necessary. (2) Where it appears to any Magistrate upon written information on oath and after such enquiry as he thinks necessary that there is reasonable grounds to believe that in any place or building there is any book, account, record or other documents including an electronic record the production of which has been required under subsection (1) but has not been produced, such Magistrate may issue a warrant authorizing the Directo r General or any officer of the Organization authorized by the Director General, with or without assistance, enter the place or building, by force if necessary, and inspect the place or building, seize, take possession of and detain any such book, account, record or other documents including electronic record. (3) Any person who fails to comply with subsection (1) commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding ten thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceedin g two years or to both. Obstructing, etc., Director General, Deputy Directors General and Employment Services Officer 71. Any person who— (a) fails to comply with any direction given by the Director General, or any Deputy Director General or Employ ment Services Officer while exercising his powers and performing his functions under this Act or any regulations made under this Act; or 

56 Laws of Malaysia ACT 800 (b) in any way assaults, hinders or obstructs the Director General, or any Deputy Director General or Employment Services Officer while exercising his powers and performing his functions under this Act or any regulations made under this Act, commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding ten thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding two years or to both. Fraud or forgery in connection with payment of contributions or claim for benefits 72. Any person who commits or conspires to commit any act of fraud or forgery in connection with the payment of contributions or a claim for benefits commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding ten thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding two years or to both. Giving false or misleading information or document 73. Any person who— (a) provides or causes any person to provide any information or document to the Organization which he knows or has reasons to believe is false or misleading; or (b) makes in writing or signs any declaration, form, report, certificate or other documents required by this Act or any regulations made under this Act which is untrue or incorrect in any material particular, commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding ten thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding two years or to both. 

 Employment Insurance System 57 Court’s order in respect of contributions or benefits due and payable to Organization 74. (1) Any person who has been found guilty of any offence under section 72 or 73 and cause any non -payment of contributions to the Organization or cause any benefit under this Act to be improperly received, the court before which the person is found guilty shall order such person to pay to the Organization the amount of any contribution or benefit, together with any interest credited on such amount, due and payable to the Organization. (2) The amount of any contribution or benefit referred to in subsection (1) shall be certified by an officer of the Organization authorized by the Director General to be due from such person prior to the date of such finding of guilt and the certification of the authorized officer shall be prima facie evidence of the amount due and payable. (3) Any contribution or benefit referred to in subsection (1) shall be recoverable in the same manner as, and shall be appealable as if it was, an order for payment of compensation under section 426 of the Criminal Procedure Code, except wh ere the court directs payment of the sum of money to be made by instalments, the court shall direct that the sum of money be paid in not more than six instalments within six months. Copy of entry to be prima facie evidence, and production of documents 75. (1) In any legal proceedings under this Act, a copy of any entry in the accounts of the Organization duly certified by an officer of the Organization authorized by the Director General shall be prima facie evidence of such entry having been made and of the truth of the contents of the entry. (2) The court may, upon application by the Public Prosecutor, require any person to produce any document which is in his possession and relevant to the case, and such document shall be produced within the time specified by the court. 

58 Laws of Malaysia ACT 800 Prosecution 76. No prosecution shall be instituted for any offence under this Act or any regulations made under this Act except by or with the consent in writing of the Public Prosecutor. Compounding of offences 77. (1) The Minister may, with the approval of the Pu blic Prosecutor, make regulations prescribing— (a) any offence under this Act or any regulations made under this Act as an offence which may be compounded; (b) the criteria for compounding such offence; and (c) the method and procedure for compounding such offence. (2) The Director General or any officer of the Organization authorized in writing by the Director General may, with the consent in writing of the Public Prosecutor, at any time before a charge is being instituted, compound any offence prescribed as an offence which may be compounded by making a written offer to the person reasonably suspected of having committed the offence to compound the offence upon payment to the Director General of a sum of money not exceeding fifty per centum of the amount of the maximum fine to which the person would have been liable to if he had been convicted of the offence, within such time as may be specified in the written offer. (3) An offer under subsection (2) may be made at any time after the offence has been committed but before any prosecution for it has been instituted, and where the amount specified in the offer is not paid within the time specified in the offer, or such extended time as the Director General may grant, prosecution for the offence ma y be instituted at any time after that against the person to whom the offer was made. 

 Employment Insurance System 59 (4) Where an offence has been compounded under subsection (2), no prosecution shall be instituted in respect of the offence against the person to whom the offer to com pound was made, and any document or thing seized in connection with the offence may be released by the Director General, subject to such terms as the Director General thinks fit. (5) All sums of moneys received by the Director General under this section shall be paid into and form part of the Fund. PART X GENERAL Duty to keep returns, particulars, etc. 78. (1) Every employer shall keep or maintain any return, particulars, register book or record pertaining to each employee. (2) The Employment Services Officer may request the employer to submit any return, particulars, register book or record referred to in subsection (1). (3) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) or fails to comply with the request under subsection (2) commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding ten thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding two years or to both. Appointment of collection agent 79. The Organization may appoint such number of collection agents for the purpose of recovery of any debt due to the Organization. 

60 Laws of Malaysia ACT 800 Engagement of auditors, actuaries, etc. 80. The Organization may, subject to such terms and conditions, engage such auditors, actuaries, technical advisers, bankers, stockbrokers, surveyors, consultants or any other persons as the Organization deems fit to assist the Organization in the performance of its functions. Public servant 81. The Director General, Deputy Directors General, all members of the Board, the Committee or committee established under section 9, Employment Services Officers and officers and servants of the Organization, while d ischarging their duties under this Act or any regulations made under this Act, shall be deemed to be a public servant within the meaning of the Penal Code [Act 574]. Power of Organization to establish or take over companies 82. (1) The Organization may, with the approval of the Minister and the Minister of Finance, establish or take over any company under the Companies Act 2016 [ Act 777] to carry out, administer, conduct and manage any project, joint venture, privatization programme, scheme, enterprise or any other matter which has been planned or undertaken by the Organization for the purposes of the System. (2) The Organization may give directions to the company referred to in subsection (1) on matters relating to the administration, finance and operation of the company which are consistent with the provisions of this Act, and such company shall give effect to the directions. 

 Employment Insurance System 61 Power to exempt 83. The Minister may, by order published in the Gazette and subject to such conditions specified in the order, exempt— (a) any industry or class of industries; or (b) any employer or employee, or class of employers or employees, from any of the provisions of this Act or any regulations made under this Act. Power to amend schedule 84. The Minister may, by order published in the Gazette, amend the First Schedule. Power to make regulations 85. (1) The Minister may make such regulations as may be expedient or necessary for the better carrying out of the provisions of this Act. (2) Without prejudice to the generality of subsection (1), regulations may be made for all or any of the following purposes: (a) all matters relating to contributions and benefits including the manner in which the contribution or benefit to be calculated, and the procedure for making a claim for benefits; (b) the procedure for the determination of loss of employment and contributions qualifying conditions; (c) the conditions which shall be complied with by an insured person who is receiving any benefit; 

62 Laws of Malaysia ACT 800 (d) all matters relating to the training of insured persons; (e) all matters relating to training providers in cluding the duties of the training providers, procedure for making a claim for training fees and documents to be provided or maintained by the training provider; (f) the procedure of any proceedings before the Appellate Board; (g) all matters relating to the re -employment placement programme; (h) the procedure for the registration of industries and employees; (i) any other matters to be prescribed under this Act. (3) Any regulations made under this Act may prescribe an act or omission in contravention of the regulations to be an offence and may prescribe for penalties of a fine not exceeding ten thousand ringgit or imprisonment for a term not exceeding two years or both for such offence. Disposal of documents after more than three years 86. (1) The Director General may authorize any paper -based document belonging to the Organization to be copied onto an electronic medium by such means so as to ensure that the exact image of that document is capable of being viewed, reproduced and copied. (2) Where a paper-based document has been copied in accordance with subsection (1), the Director General may authorize the disposal of the paper-based document after the expiry of a period of three years from the making of such electronic copy. (3) A copy of the paper -based document kept on an electronic medium in accordance with subsection (1) shall be admissible as 

 Employment Insurance System 63 evidence of any fact stated therein in accordance with section 90A of the Evidence Act 1950 [Act 56]. Recommendations to review System 87. (1) The Board may, when substantial changes in the general level of earnings resulting from substantial changes in the cost of living, examine the situation on the basis of an actuarial valuation made and make recommendations to the Minister to review the System under this Act. (2) The recommendations of the Board referred to in subsection (1)— (a) shall be accompanied by the actuarial report; (b) shall take into account the social policy of the Government; and (c) may include— (i) a proposal for a new rate of contributions; (ii) a proposal for changes in the rates of the job search allowance, early re -employment allowance, reduced income allowance and training allowance and the amount of training fee; and (iii) a proposal for new types of benefits. Offences by body corporate, etc. 88. (1) If an employer who is a body corporate, partnership or society commits an offence under this Act— (a) in the case of a body corporate, any person who at the time of the commission of the offence was a director, manager, secretary or other similar officer of the body corporate; 

64 Laws of Malaysia ACT 800 (b) in the case of a partnership, every partner in the partnership at the tim e of the commission of the offence; or (c) in the case of a society, every office -bearer of the society at the time of the commission of the offence, may be charged severally or jointly in the same proceedings with the body corporate, partnership or society. (2) If the body corporate, partnership or society is found to have committed the offence, the director, manager, secretary or other similar officer of the body corporate, the partner in the partnership or the office-bearer of the society referre d to in subsection (1) shall be deemed to have committed that offence unless, having regard to the nature of his functions in that capacity and to all circumstances, he proves— (a) that the offence was committed without his knowledge, consent or connivance; and (b) that he had taken all reasonable precautions and exercised due diligence to prevent the commission of the offence. Organization may deal with authorized person 89. (1) In all matters pertaining to benefits under this Act, the Organization may deal directly with the insured person or an official of a registered trade union authorized in writing by such insured person or a legal practitioner representing such insured person. (2) The Organization may refuse to entertain any representation made by any other person. 

 Employment Insurance System 65 Electronic submission of documents 90. (1) Subject to subsection (2), the Organization may allow any returns, particulars, records, notices, reports, registers or other documents required to be submitted or furnished under this Act or regulations made under this Act by an electronic medium or by way of an electronic transmission. (2) The conditions and specifications under which the returns, particulars, records, notices, reports, registers or other documents referred to in subsection (1) are to be submitted or furnished shall be as determined by the Organization. (3) The returns, particulars, records, notices, reports, registers or other documents referred to in subsection (1) shall be deemed to have been submitted or furnished by a person to the Organization on the date the acknowledgment of receipt of such returns, particulars, records, notices, reports, registers or other documents are transmit ted electronically by the Organization to the person. (4) The acknowledgment of receipt by the Organization, returns, particulars, records, notices, reports, registers or other documents submitted or furnished pursuant to subsection (3) shall be admissible as evidence in any proceedings. 

66 Laws of Malaysia ACT 800 FIRST SCHEDULE [Section 2] 1. Any person whose employment is of casual nature and who is employed otherwise than for the purposes of the employer’s industry. 2. (Deleted by P.U. (A) 249/2021). 3. Any person who is permitted to win minerals or produce of any kind from or on the land of another and who, in consideration of such permission, gives a proportion of the minerals or produce so won to that other person or pays to him the value of such proportion. 4. (Deleted by P.U. (A) 145/2018). 5. Any person detained in any prison, Henry Gurney School, approved school, place of detention, mental hospital or leper settlement. 6. Any member of the public service of the Federation and the States. 7. Any employee of the local authority or statutory body. 8. Any employee who has not attained the age of eighteen years or who has attained the age of sixty years. 9. Any employee who has attained the age of fifty -seven years and in respect of whom no contributions were payable under this Act before he attained the age of fifty-seven years. 10. Any foreign employee, except— (a) a non-citizen who is residing permanently in Malaysia and issued with an identity card as described under paragraph 5(3)(b) of the National Registration Regulations 1990 [P.U. (A) 472/1990]; (b) a person who— (i) lawfully enters Malaysia under a valid immigration pass or permit; (ii) is allowed to reside in Malaysia for a period of twelve months and above; and (iii) is issued with an identity card as described under paragraph 5(3)(c) of the National Registration Regulations 1990; and 

 Employment Insurance System 67 (c) a person who is born in Malaysia but whose citizenship status cannot be determined, and issued with an identity card as described under paragraph 5(3)(c) of the National Registration Regulations 1990. SECOND SCHEDULE [Section 18] RATES OF CONTRIBUTION 1. For the purposes of this Schedule— (a) “monthly wages” means the wages payable to an employee in respect of any wage period ending in the month; and (b) “wage period” means the period in respect of which the wages earned by an employee are payable. 2. Contributions shall be calculated based on the monthly wages and shall be at the following rates: Monthly Wages Employer’s Contribution Employee’s Contribution Total 1. Wages up to RM30 … … … 5 sen 5 sen 10 sen 2. When wages exceed RM30 but not exceed RM50 10 sen 10 sen 20 sen 3. When wages exceed RM50 but not exceed RM70 15 sen 15 sen 30 sen 4. When wages exceed RM70 but not exceed RM100 20 sen 20 sen 40 sen 5. When wages exceed RM100 but not exceed RM140 25 sen 25 sen 50 sen 6. When wages exceed RM140 but not exceed RM200 35 sen 35 sen 70 sen 

68 Laws of Malaysia ACT 800 Monthly Wages Employer’s Contribution Employee’s Contribution Total 7. When wages exceed RM200 but not exceed RM300 50 sen 50 sen RM1.00 8. When wages exceed RM300 but not exceed RM400 70 sen 70 sen RM1.40 9. When wages exceed RM400 but not exceed RM500 90 sen 90 sen RM1.80 10. When wages exceed RM500 but not exceed RM600 RM1.10 RM1.10 RM2.20 11. When wages exceed RM600 but not exceed RM700 RM1.30 RM1.30 RM2.60 12. When wages exceed RM700 but not exceed RM800 RM1.50 RM1.50 RM3.00 13. When wages exceed RM800 but not exceed RM900 RM1.70 RM1.70 RM3.40 14. When wages exceed RM900 but not exceed RM1,000 RM1.90 RM1.90 RM3.80 15. When wages exceed RM1,000 but not exceed RM1,100 RM2.10 RM2.10 RM4.20 16. When wages exceed RM1,100 but not exceed RM1,200 RM2.30 RM2.30 RM4.60 17. When wages exceed RM1,200 but not exceed RM1,300 RM2.50 RM2.50 RM5.00 18. When wages exceed RM1,300 but not exceed RM1,400 RM2.70 RM2.70 RM5.40 

 Employment Insurance System 69 Monthly Wages Employer’s Contribution Employee’s Contribution Total 19. When wages exceed RM1,400 but not exceed RM1,500 RM2.90 RM2.90 RM5.80 20. When wages exceed RM1,500 but not exceed RM1,600 RM3.10 RM3.10 RM6.20 21. When wages exceed RM1,600 but not exceed RM1,700 RM3.30 RM3.30 RM6.60 22. When wages exceed RM1,700 but not exceed RM1,800 RM3.50 RM3.50 RM7.00 23. When wages exceed RM1,800 but not exceed RM1,900 RM3.70 RM3.70 RM7.40 24. When wages exceed RM1,900 but not exceed RM2,000 RM3.90 RM3.90 RM7.80 25. When wages exceed RM2,000 but not exceed RM2,100 RM4.10 RM4.10 RM8.20 26. When wages exceed RM2,100 but not exceed RM2,200 RM4.30 RM4.30 RM8.60 27. When wages exceed RM2,200 but not exceed RM2,300 RM4.50 RM4.50 RM9.00 28. When wages exceed RM2,300 but not exceed RM2,400 RM4.70 RM4.70 RM9.40 

70 Laws of Malaysia ACT 800 Monthly Wages Employer’s Contribution Employee’s Contribution Total 29. When wages exceed RM2,400 but not exceed RM2,500 RM4.90 RM4.90 RM9.80 30. When wages exceed RM2,500 but not exceed RM2,600 RM5.10 RM5.10 RM10.20 31. When wages exceed RM2,600 but not exceed RM2,700 RM5.30 RM5.30 RM10.60 32. When wages exceed RM2,700 but not exceed RM2,800 RM5.50 RM5.50 RM11.00 33. When wages exceed RM2,800 but not exceed RM2,900 RM5.70 RM5.70 RM11.40 34. When wages exceed RM2,900 but not exceed RM3,000 RM5.90 RM5.90 RM11.80 35. When wages exceed RM3,000 but not exceed RM3,100 RM6.10 RM6.10 RM12.20 36. When wages exceed RM3,100 but not exceed RM3,200 RM6.30 RM6.30 RM12.60 37. When wages exceed RM3,200 but not exceed RM3,300 RM6.50 RM6.50 RM13.00 38. When wages exceed RM3,300 but not exceed RM3,400 RM6.70 RM6.70 RM13.40 

 Employment Insurance System 71 Monthly Wages Employer’s Contribution Employee’s Contribution Total 39. When wages exceed RM3,400 but not exceed RM3,500 RM6.90 RM6.90 RM13.80 40. When wages exceed RM3,500 but not exceed RM3,600 RM7.10 RM7.10 RM14.20 41. When wages exceed RM3,600 but not exceed RM3,700 RM7.30 RM7.30 RM14.60 42. When wages exceed RM3,700 but not exceed RM3,800 RM7.50 RM7.50 RM15.00 43. When wages exceed RM3,800 but not exceed RM3,900 RM7.70 RM7.70 RM15.40 44. When wages exceed RM3,900 but not exceed RM4,000 RM7.90 RM7.90 RM15.80 45. When wages exceed RM4,000 but not exceed RM4,100 RM8.10 RM8.10 RM16.20 46. When wages exceed RM4,100 but not exceed RM4,200 RM8.30 RM8.30 RM16.60 47. When wages exceed RM4,200 but not exceed RM4,300 RM8.50 RM8.50 RM17.00 48. When wages exceed RM4,300 but not exceed RM4,400 RM8.70 RM8.70 RM17.40 

72 Laws of Malaysia ACT 800 Monthly Wages Employer’s Contribution Employee’s Contribution Total 49. When wages exceed RM4,400 but not exceed RM4,500 RM8.90 RM8.90 RM17.80 50. When wages exceed RM4,500 but not exceed RM4,600 RM9.10 RM9.10 RM18.20 51. When wages exceed RM4,600 but not exceed RM4,700 RM9.30 RM9.30 RM18.60 52. When wages exceed RM4,700 but not exceed RM4,800 RM9.50 RM9.50 RM19.00 53. When wages exceed RM4,800 but not exceed RM4,900 RM9.70 RM9.70 RM19.40 54. When wages exceed RM4,900 but not exceed RM5,000 RM9.90 RM9.90 RM19.80 55. When wages exceed RM5,000 RM9.90 RM9.90 RM19.80 THIRD SCHEDULE [Sections 18, 34, 35, 36 and 37] RATES OF BENEFITS 1. The rates for the job search allowance shall be as follows: (a) eighty percent (80%) of the assumed monthly wages for the first month; (b) fifty percent (50%) of the assumed monthly wages for the second month; 

 Employment Insurance System 73 (c) forty percent (40%) of the assumed monthly wages for the third and fourth months; (d) thirty percent (30%) of the assumed monthly wages for the fifth and sixth months. 2. The rates for the early re-employment allowance shall be— (a) in the case where an insured person accepts an offer of employment and reports duty for work within the waiting period, twenty -five percent (25%) of the total job search allowance which he is entitled to; (b) in the case where an insured person accepts an offer of employment within the waiting period but reports duty for work within the period of receiving a job search allowance, twenty-five percent (25%) of the total balance of the job search allowance remains unpaid; or (c) in the case where an insured person accepts an offer of employment and reports duty for work within the period of receiving a job search allowance, twenty-five percent (25%) of the total balance of the job search allowance remains unpaid. 3. The rates for the reduced income allowance shall be as follows: (a) eighty percent (80%) of the assumed monthly wages for the first month; (b) fifty percent (50%) of the assumed monthly wages for the second month; (c) forty percent (40%) of the assumed monthly wages for the third and fourth months; (d) thirty percent (30%) of the assumed monthly wages for the fifth and sixth months. 4. The training allowance— (a) shall be paid at the rate of twenty -five percent (25%) of the assumed monthly wages calculated on daily basis but shall be subject to a minimum of ten ringgit and a maximum of twenty ringgit per day; and (b) shall be paid monthly according to the number of training days attended by the insured person. 

74 Laws of Malaysia ACT 800 5. The maximum amount of the training fee shall be four thousand ringgit. 6. The assumed monthly wages shall be an amount equal to the amount of the monthly wages for each month for which the contribu tions have been paid or are payable within six consecutive months immediately preceding the month in which the loss of employment occurred, divided by the number of months for which contributions were paid or payable. 7. For the purpose of determining the assumed monthly wages under paragraph 6— (a) in the case where the monthly wages are not paid to an insured person, the monthly wages of the insured person shall be an amount equal to the amount of the monthly minimum wages in accordance with the Minimum Wages Order made under the National Wages Consultative Council Act 2011 [Act 732]; and (b) in the case where an insured person receives the monthly temporary disablement benefit under the Employees’ Social Security A ct 1969, the monthly wages of the insured person shall be the actual wages of the insured person prior to receiving the monthly temporary disablement benefit. 8. The assumed monthly wages specified in paragraph 6 for each month shall be the amount specified below which shall correspond to the rate of contributions paid or payable for the month according to the Second Schedule: ASSUMED MONTHLY WAGES Actual monthly wages of the month Total contribution Corresponding assumed monthly wages for the month 1. Wages up to RM30 … … … … 10 sen RM20 2. When wages exceed RM30 but not exceed RM50 20 sen RM40 3. When wages exceed RM50 but not exceed RM70 30 sen RM60 4. When wages exceed RM70 but not exceed RM100 40 sen RM85 

 Employment Insurance System 75 Actual monthly wages of the month Total contribution Corresponding assumed monthly wages for the month 5. When wages exceed RM100 but not exceed RM140 50 sen RM120 6. When wages exceed RM140 but not exceed RM200 70 sen RM170 7. When wages exceed RM200 but not exceed RM300 RM1.00 RM250 8. When wages exceed RM300 but not exceed RM400 RM1.40 RM350 9. When wages exceed RM400 but not exceed RM500 RM1.80 RM450 10. When wages exceed RM500 but not exceed RM600 RM2.20 RM550 11. When wages exceed RM600 but not exceed RM700 RM2.60 RM650 12. When wages exceed RM700 but not exceed RM800 RM3.00 RM750 13. When wages exceed RM800 but not exceed RM900 RM3.40 RM850 14. When wages exceed RM900 but not exceed RM1,000 RM3.80 RM950 15. When wages exceed RM1,000 but not exceed RM1,100 RM4.20 RM1,050 16. When wages exceed RM1,100 but not exceed RM1,200 RM4.60 RM1,150 17. When wages exceed RM1,200 but not exceed RM1,300 RM5.00 RM1,250 

76 Laws of Malaysia ACT 800 Actual monthly wages of the month Total contribution Corresponding assumed monthly wages for the month 18. When wages exceed RM1,300 but not exceed RM1,400 RM5.40 RM1,350 19. When wages exceed RM1,400 but not exceed RM1,500 RM5.80 RM1,450 20. When wages exceed RM1,500 but not exceed RM1,600 RM6.20 RM1,550 21. When wages exceed RM1,600 but not exceed RM1,700 RM6.60 RM1,650 22. When wages exceed RM1,700 but not exceed RM1,800 RM7.00 RM1,750 23. When wages exceed RM1,800 but not exceed RM1,900 RM7.40 RM1,850 24. When wages exceed RM1,900 but not exceed RM2,000 RM7.80 RM1,950 25. When wages exceed RM2,000 but not exceed RM2,100 RM8.20 RM2,050 26. When wages exceed RM2,100 but not exceed RM2,200 RM8.60 RM2,150 27. When wages exceed RM2,200 but not exceed RM2,300 RM9.00 RM2,250 28. When wages exceed RM2,300 but not exceed RM2,400 RM9.40 RM2,350 29. When wages exceed RM2,400 but not exceed RM2,500 RM9.80 RM2,450 30. When wages exceed RM2,500 but not exceed RM2,600 RM10.20 RM2,550 

 Employment Insurance System 77 Actual monthly wages of the month Total contribution Corresponding assumed monthly wages for the month 31. When wages exceed RM2,600 but not exceed RM2,700 RM10.60 RM2,650 32. When wages exceed RM2,700 but not exceed RM2,800 RM11.00 RM2,750 33. When wages exceed RM2,800 but not exceed RM2,900 RM11.40 RM2,850 34. When wages exceed RM2,900 but not exceed RM3,000 RM11.80 RM2,950 35. When wages exceed RM3,000 but not exceed RM3,100 RM12.20 RM3,050 36. When wages exceed RM3,100 but not exceed RM3,200 RM12.60 RM3,150 37. When wages exceed RM3,200 but not exceed RM3,300 RM13.00 RM3,250 38. When wages exceed RM3,300 but not exceed RM3,400 RM13.40 RM3,350 39. When wages exceed RM3,400 but not exceed RM3,500 RM13.80 RM3,450 40. When wages exceed RM3,500 but not exceed RM3,600 RM14.20 RM3,550 41. When wages exceed RM3,600 but not exceed RM3,700 RM14.60 RM3,650 42. When wages exceed RM3,700 but not exceed RM3,800 RM15.00 RM3,750 43. When wages exceed RM3,800 but not exceed RM3,900 RM15.40 RM3,850 

78 Laws of Malaysia ACT 800 Actual monthly wages of the month Total contribution Corresponding assumed monthly wages for the month 44. When wages exceed RM3,900 but not exceed RM4,000 RM15.80 RM3,950 45. When wages exceed RM4,000 but not exceed RM4,100 RM16.20 RM4,050 46. When wages exceed RM4,100 but not exceed RM4,200 RM16.60 RM4,150 47. When wages exceed RM4,200 but not exceed RM4,300 RM17.00 RM4,250 48. When wages exceed RM4,300 but not exceed RM4,400 RM17.40 RM4,350 49. When wages exceed RM4,400 but not exceed RM4,500 RM17.80 RM4,450 50. When wages exceed RM4,500 but not exceed RM4,600 RM18.20 RM4,550 51. When wages exceed RM4,600 but not exceed RM4,700 RM18.60 RM4,650 52. When wages exceed RM4,700 but not exceed RM4,800 RM19.00 RM4,750 53. When wages exceed RM4,800 but not exceed RM4,900 RM19.40 RM4,850 54. When wages exceed RM4,900 but not exceed RM5,000 RM19.80 RM4,950 55. When wages exceed RM5,000 RM19.80 RM4,950 

 Employment Insurance System 79 FOURTH SCHEDULE [Sections 32, 34 and 36] CONTRIBUTIONS QUALIFYING CONDITIONS Contributions qualifying conditions Period of payment for job search allowance and reduced income allowance (a) First claim (i) 12 to 15 months of contributions made in the eligibility period of 24 consecutive months immediately preceding the loss of employment which shall include the month in which the loss of employment occurs. 3 months (ii) 16 to 19 months of contributions made in the eligibility period of 24 consecutive months immediately preceding the loss of employment which shall include the month in which the loss of employment occurs. 4 months (iii) 20 to 23 months of contributions made in the eligibility period of 24 consecutive months immediately preceding the loss of employment which shall include the month in which the loss of employment occurs. 5 months (iv) 24 months of contributions made in the eligibility period of 24 consecutive months immediately preceding the loss of employment which shall include the month in which the loss of employment occurs. 6 months (b) Second claim (i) 18 to 23 months of contributions made in the eligibility period of 36 consecutive months immediately preceding the loss of 3 months 

80 Laws of Malaysia ACT 800 Contributions qualifying conditions Period of payment for job search allowance and reduced income allowance employment which shall include the month in which the loss of employment occurs. (ii) 24 to 29 months of contributions made in the eligibility period of 36 consecutive months immediately preceding the loss of employment which shall include the month in which the loss of employment occurs. 4 months (iii) 30 to 35 months of contribution s made in the eligibility period of 36 consecutive months immediately preceding the loss of employment which shall include the month in which the loss of employment occurs. 5 months (iv) 36 months of contributions made in the eligibility period of 36 consecutive months immediately preceding the loss of employment which shall include the month in which the loss of employment occurs. 6 months (c) Third claim (i) 24 to 31 months of contributions made in the eligibility period of 48 consecutive months immediately preceding the loss of employment which shall include the month in which the loss of employment occurs. 3 months (ii) 32 to 39 months of contributions made in the eligibility period of 48 consecutive months immediately preceding the loss of employment which shall include the month in which the loss of employment occurs. 4 months (iii) 40 to 47 months of contributions made in the eligibility period of 48 consecutive months immediately preceding the loss of employment 5 months 

 Employment Insurance System 81 Contributions qualifying conditions Period of payment for job search allowance and reduced income allowance which shall include the month in which the loss of employment occurs. (iv) 48 months of contributions made in the eligibility period of 48 consecutive months immediately preceding the loss of employment which shall include the month in which the loss of employment occurs. 6 months (d) Fourth claim (i) 30 to 39 months of contributions made in the eligibility period of 60 consecutive months immediately preceding the loss of employment which shall include the month in which the loss of employment occurs. 3 months (ii) 40 to 49 months of contributions made in the eligibility period of 60 consecutive months immediately preceding the loss of employment which shall include the month in which the loss of employment occurs. 4 months (iii) 50 to 59 months of contribution s made in the eligibility period of 60 consecutive months immediately preceding the loss of employment which shall include the month in which the loss of employment occurs. 5 months (iv) 60 months of contributions made in the eligibility period of 60 consecutive months immediately preceding the loss of employment which shall include the month in which the loss of employment occurs. 6 months (e) Fifth claim (i) 36 to 47 months of contributions made in the eligibility period of 72 consecutive months 3 months 

82 Laws of Malaysia ACT 800 Contributions qualifying conditions Period of payment for job search allowance and reduced income allowance immediately preceding the loss of employment which shall include the month in which the loss of employment occurs. (ii) 48 to 59 months of contributions made in the eligibility period of 72 consecutive months immediately preceding the loss of employment which shall include the month in which the loss of employment occurs. 4 months (iii) 60 to 71 months of contributions made in the eligibility period of 72 consecutive months immediately preceding the loss of employment which shall include the month in which the loss of employment occurs. 5 months (iv) 72 months of contributions made in the eligibility period of 72 consecutive months immediately preceding the loss of employment which shall include the month in which the loss of employment occurs. 6 months (f) Sixth claim (i) 42 to 55 months of contributions made in the eligibility period of 84 consecutive months immediately preceding the loss of employment which shall include the month in which the loss of employment occurs. 3 months (ii) 56 to 69 months of contributions made in the eligibility period of 84 consecutive months immediately preceding the loss of employment which shall include the month in which the loss of employment occurs. 4 months (iii) 70 to 83 months of contributions made in the eligibility period of 84 consecutive months 5 months 

 Employment Insurance System 83 Contributions qualifying conditions Period of payment for job search allowance and reduced income allowance immediately preceding the loss of employment which shall include the month in which the loss of employment occurs. (iv) 84 months of contributions made in the eligibility period of 84 consecutive months immediately preceding the loss of employment which shall include the month in which the loss of employment occurs. 6 months (g) Seventh claim (i) 48 to 63 months of contributions made in the eligibility period of 96 consecutive months immediately preceding the loss of employment which shall include the month in which the loss of employment occurs. 3 months (ii) 64 to 79 months of contributions made in the eligibility period of 96 consecutive months immediately preceding the loss of employment which shall include the month in which the loss of employment occurs. 4 months (iii) 80 to 95 months of contribution s made in the eligibility period of 96 consecutive months immediately preceding the loss of employment which shall include the month in which the loss of employment occurs. 5 months (iv) 96 months of contributions made in the eligibility period of 96 consecutive months immediately preceding the loss of employment which shall include the month in which the loss of employment occurs. 6 months (h) Eighth claim 

84 Laws of Malaysia ACT 800 Contributions qualifying conditions Period of payment for job search allowance and reduced income allowance (i) 54 to 71 months of contributions made in the eligibility period of 108 consecutive months immediately preceding the loss of employment which shall include the month in which the loss of employment occurs. 3 months (ii) 72 to 89 months of contributions made in the eligibility period of 108 consecutive months immediately preceding the loss of employment which shall include the month in which the loss of employment occurs. 4 months (iii) 90 to 107 months of contributions made in the eligibility period of 108 consecutive months immediately preceding the loss of employment which shall include the month in which the loss of employment occurs. 5 months (iv) 108 months of contributions made in the eligibility period of 108 consecutive months immediately preceding the loss of employment which shall include the month in which the loss of employment occurs. 6 months (i) Ninth claim (i) 60 to 79 months of contributions made in the eligibility period of 120 consecutive months immediately preceding the loss of employment which shall include the month in which the loss of employment occurs. 3 months (ii) 80 to 99 months of contribution s made in the eligibility period of 120 consecutive months immediately preceding the loss of employment which shall include the month in which the loss of employment occurs. 4 months 

 Employment Insurance System 85 Contributions qualifying conditions Period of payment for job search allowance and reduced income allowance (iii) 100 to 119 months of contributions made in the eligibility period of 120 consecutive months immediately preceding the loss of employment which shall include the month in which the loss of employment occurs. 5 months (iv) 120 months of contributions made in the eligibility period of 120 consecutive months immediately preceding the loss of employment which shall include the month in which the loss of employment occurs. 6 months (j) Tenth claim (i) 66 to 87 months o f contributions made in the eligibility period of 132 consecutive months immediately preceding the loss of employment which shall include the month in which the loss of employment occurs. 3 months (ii) 88 to 109 months of contributions made in the eligibility period of 132 consecutive months immediately preceding the loss of employment which shall include the month in which the loss of employment occurs. 4 months (iii) 110 to 131 months of contributions made in the eligibility period of 132 consecutive months immediately preceding the loss of employment which shall include the month in which the loss of employment occurs. 5 months (iv) 132 months of contributions made in the eligibility period of 132 consecutive months immediately preceding the loss of employment which shall include the month in which the loss of employment occurs. 6 months 

86 Laws of Malaysia ACT 800 Contributions qualifying conditions Period of payment for job search allowance and reduced income allowance (k) Eleventh claim (i) 72 to 95 month s of contributions made in the eligibility period of 144 consecutive months immediately preceding the loss of employment which shall include the month in which the loss of employment occurs. 3 months (ii) 96 to 119 months of contributions made in the eligibility period of 144 consecutive months immediately preceding the loss of employment which shall include the month in which the loss of employment occurs. 4 months (iii) 120 to 143 months of contributions made in the eligibility period of 144 consecutive months immediately preceding the loss of employment which shall include the month in which the loss of employment occurs. 5 months (iv) 144 months of contributions made in the eligibility period of 144 consecutive months immediately preceding the loss of employment which shall include the month in which the loss of employment occurs. 6 months (l) Twelfth claim (i) 78 to 103 months of contributions made in the eligibility period of 156 consecutive months immediately preceding the loss of employment which shall include the month in which the loss of employment occurs. 3 months (ii) 104 to 129 months of contributions made in the eligibility period of 156 consecutive months immediately preceding the loss of employment which shall include the month in which the loss of employment occurs. 4 months 

 Employment Insurance System 87 Contributions qualifying conditions Period of payment for job search allowance and reduced income allowance (iii) 130 to 155 months of contributions made in the eligibility period of 156 consecutive months immediately preceding the loss of employment which shall include the month in which the loss of employment occurs. 5 months (iv) 156 months of contributions made in the eligibility period of 156 consecutive months immediately preceding the loss of employment which shall include the month in which the loss of employment occurs. 6 months 

 88 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 800 EMPLOYMENT INSURANCE SYSTEM ACT 2017 LIST OF AMENDMENTS Amending law Short title In force from P.U. (A) 145/2018 Employment Insurance System (Amendment of First Schedule) Order 2018 012018 P.U. (A) 355/2018 P.U. (A) 249/2021 Employment Insurance System (Amendment of First Schedule) (No. 2) Order 2018 Employment Insurance System (Amendment of First Schedule) Order 2021 012018 012021 Act A1657 Employment Insurance System (Amendment) Act 2022 012022 

89 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 800 EMPLOYMENT INSURANCE SYSTEM ACT 2017 LIST OF SECTIONS AMENDED Section Amending authority In force from Section 16 Act A1657 012022 First Schedule P.U. (A) 145/2018 012018 P.U. (A) 355/2018 P.U. (A) 249/2021 012018 012021 Second Schedule Act A1657 012022 Third Schedule Act A1657 012022