Factories and Machinery (Repeal) 1 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 835 FACTORIES AND MACHINERY (REPEAL) ACT 2022

Laws of Malaysia 2 Act 835 Date of Royal Assent ... ... 4 March 2022 Date of publication in the ... ... 16 March 2022 Gazette Publisher’s Copyright C PERCETAKAN NASIONAL MALAYSIA BERHAD All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system or transmitted in any form or by any means electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording and/or otherwise without the prior permission of Percetakan Nasional Malaysia Berhad (Appointed Printer to the Government of Malaysia).

Factories and Machinery (Repeal) 3 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 835 FACTORIES AND MACHINERY (REPEAL) ACT 2022 ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS Section 1. Short title and commencement 2. Interpretation 3. Repeal of the Factories and Machinery Act 1967 4. Action, etc., made under repealed Act 5. Pending application, etc. 6. Continuation of legal proceeding, etc.

Laws of Malaysia 4 Act 835

Factories and Machinery (Repeal) 5 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 835 FACTORIES AND MACHINERY (REPEAL) ACT 2022 An Act to repeal the Factories and Machinery Act 1967. [ ] ENACTED by the Parliament of Malaysia as follows: Short title and commencement 1. (1) This Act may be cited as the Factories and Machinery (Repeal) Act 2022. (2) This Act comes into operation on a date to be appointed by the Minister by notification in the Gazette . Interpretation 2. In this Act, “repealed Act” means the Factories and Machinery Act 1967 [ Act 139 ]. Repeal of the Factories and Machinery Act 1967 3. The Factories and Machinery Act 1967 is repealed.

Laws of Malaysia 6 Act 835 Action, etc., made under repealed Act 4. (1) Any registration made, or order, notice, direction, written authority, approval, certificate of fitness, special scheme of inspection or certificate of competency given or issued, under the repealed Act shall, on the coming into operation of this Act, be dealt with under the Occupational Safety and Health Act 1994 [Act 514 ]. (2) Notwithstanding subsection (1), any notice issued under subsection 19(2), 39(3) or 40(4) of the repealed Act shall, on the coming into operation of this Act, be dealt with under the repealed Act as if the repealed Act had not been repealed. Pending application, etc. 5. The following matters shall, on the coming into operation of this Act, be dealt with under the repealed Act as if the repealed Act had not been repealed: (a) any pending application made in relation to a certificate of competency or a written authority under subsection 29(2) of the repealed Act; (b) any pending application for a written permission in relation to the use of any premises as a factory under subsection 34(2) of the repealed Act; (c) any pending application for a written approval in relation to installation of machinery under subsection 36(1) of the repealed Act; (d) any pending inspection under subsection 36(3) of the repealed Act; (e) any pending appeal under subsection 36(6) of the repealed Act; (f) any pending periodical inspection under section 40 of the repealed Act; or (g) any pending application for approval in relation to a special scheme of inspection under subsection 40(5) of the repealed Act.

Factories and Machinery (Repeal) 7 Continuance of legal proceeding, etc. 6. Any pending legal proceeding, criminal prosecution or investigation, or any sentence imposed or action taken, before the coming into operation of this Act in respect of an offence or breach under the repealed Act, may be instituted, continued or enforced as if the repealed Act had not been repealed. Hakcipta Pencetak H PERCETAKAN NASIONAL MALAYSIA BERHAD Semua Hak Terpelihara. Tiada mana-mana bahagian jua daripada penerbitan ini boleh diterbitkan semula atau disimpan di dalam ben tuk yang boleh diperolehi semula atau disiarkan dalam sebarang bentuk dengan apa jua cara elektronik, mekanikal, fotokopi, rakaman dan/ atau sebaliknya tanpa mendapat izin daripada Percetakan Nasional Malaysia Berhad (Pencetak kepada Kerajaan Malaysia yang dilantik). DICETAK OLEH PERCETAKAN NASIONA L MALAYSIA BERHAD, KUALA LUMPUR BAGI PIHAK DAN DENGAN PERINT AH KERAJAAN MALA YSIA