LAWS OF MALAYSIA ONLINE VERSION OF UPDATED TEXT OF REPRINT Act 149 PESTICIDES ACT 1974 As at 15 March 2023 This text is ONLY AN UPDATED TEXT of the Pesticides Act 1974 by the Attorney General’s Chambers. Unless and until re printed pursuant to the powers of the Commissioner of Law Revision under subsection 14(1) of the Revision of Laws Act 1968 [Act 1], this text is NOT AN AUTHENTIC TEXT.

 PESTICIDES ACT 1974 Date of Royal Assent … … … … 30 July 1974 Date of Publication in the Gazzette … … 29 August 1974 Latest amendment made by P.U. (A) 63/2023 which came into operation on … … … … 15 March 2023 PREVIOUS REPRINTS First Reprint ... ... ... ... ... 1983 Second Reprint ... ... ... ... ... 1997 Third Reprint ... ... ... ... ... 2001 Fourth Reprint ... ... ... ... ... 2006 

3 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 149 PESTICIDES ACT 1974 ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS PART I PRELIMINARY Section 1. Short title, application and commencement 2. Interpretation PART II THE PESTICIDES BOARD 3. Establishment of the Board 4. Alternate members 5. Provision of facilities by Ministry 6. Proceedings of the Board PART III CONTROL OF IMPORTATION AND MANUFACTURE OF PESTICIDES BY REGISTRATION AND PERMIT 7. Application for registration of pesticides 8. Registration and refusal to register 9. Period of registration 

 Laws of Malaysia ACT 149 4 Section 10. Power to cancel registration 10A. Registrant shall inform Board about adverse effects of pesticide 11. Appeal against decision of Board 12. Gazetting of pesticides 13. Prohibitions as to importation and manufacture, and penalty 14. Importation of pesticides for educational or research purposes or as registration sample or analytical standard 14A. Research or experiment on unregistered pesticides synthesized in Malaysia PART IV CONTROL OF MANUFACTURE, SALE AND STORAGE OF PESTICIDES BY LICENSING 15. Licence to manufacture pesticides 16. Appointment of Pesticides Licensing Officers 17. Licence to sell or store pesticides 18. Revocation and suspension of licence 19. Appeal against decision of Board or Pesticides Licensing Officer 20. Offences relating to manufacture, sale, and storage for sale PART V CONTROL OF PRESENCE OF PESTICIDES IN FOOD 21. Regulations to control presence of pesticides in food 22. Entry, inspection and seizure 23. Power to demand, select and take samples 24. Right to analysis of food 25. Offence of selling contaminated food 26. Ignorance of contamination not a defence 27. Defence of reliance on written warranty or statement 

Pesticides 5 PART VI DEATH AND INJURY OCCASIONED BY PESTICIDES Section 28. Reporting of accident, death and personal injury 29. Inquiry into and investigation of accident, death and personal injury 30. Inquiry or inquest in cases of death occasioned by pesticides PART VII ENFORCEMENT 31. Entry, search and seizure 32. 33. Power to stop and search conveyances Identification of officers when taking action PART VIII ANALYSIS 34. Appointment of Analysts 35. Manner of taking samples 35A. Time to commence analysis 36. Court may order analysis 37. Right to analysis of pesticide 38. Certificate of Analyst 39. Certificate of Analyst to be prima facie evidence 40. Recovery of fees and other expenses PART IX PROCEEDINGS 41. Notice of seizure, detention or removal 

 Laws of Malaysia ACT 149 6 Section 42. Complaints as to seizure, detention or removal 43. Summons 44. (Deleted) 45. Presumption as to importer or manufacturer 45A. Label as evidence of substance being a pesticide 45B. Presumption for sale or storage for sale 46. Liability of agent, servant, principal and employer 47. Liability of directors and other officers of bodies corporate 48. Offence as to sample deemed offence as to the whole lot 49. Forfeiture of offending substances 50. Jurisdiction 51. Privilege from disclosure 52. Notification of conviction PART X GENERAL 53. Giving or making false information or statement 53A. Possession or use of unregistered pesticides and unapproved use of pesticides 54. Interference with official marks 55. Secrecy 56. General penalty 57. Rules and regulations 58. Amendment of Schedules 59. Exemption PART XI AMENDMENT, REPEAL, AND SAVING OF RELATED LAWS 60. Removal of certain substances from F.M. 29/1952 

Pesticides 7 Section 61. Control in Peninsular Malaysia of substances that are both poisons and pesticides 62. Removal of certain substances from Sabah Cap. 100 63. Control in the State of Sabah of substances that are both poisons and pesticides 64. Removal of certain substances from Sarawak Cap. 121 65. Control in the State of Sarawak of substances that are both poisons and pesticides 66. Repeal of F.M. 15/1949 and Sabah Cap. 99 67. Amendment of F.M. 29/1952 FIRST SCHEDULE SECOND SCHEDULE THIRD SCHEDULE 

 

9 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 149 PESTICIDES ACT 1974 An Act to control pesticides. [Throughout Malaysia—15 April 1975, ss.1–6, 16, 21–27, 34, 50–52, 55–59, P.U. (B) 118/1975; Throughout Malaysia—1 December 1976, ss.7–12, P.U. (B) 637/1976; Throughout Malaysia—1 February 1981, s.53, P.U. (B) 48/1981; Peninsular Malaysia—1 April 1981, ss.13, 14, 31–33, 35, 36, 38–49, 54, 61, P.U. (B) 49/1981; Peninsular Malaysia—1 January 1982, s.20(3), P.U. (B) 50/1981; Peninsular Malaysia—1 January 1982, s.60, P.U. (B) 51/1981; Sabah and Sarawak—1 January 1982, s.13, 14, 31–33, 35, 36, 38–49, 54, 61, P.U. (B) 52/1981; Sabah and Sarawak—1 September 1982, s.20(3), P.U. (B) 574/1981; Peninsular Malaysia—1 April 1982, s.20(4), P.U. (B) 127/1982; Sabah and Sarawak—1 September 1982, s.20(4), P.U. (B) 297/1982; Throughout Malaysia—1 September 1988, ss.17–19, P.U. (B) 353/1988; Sabah, Sarawak and Federal Territory of Labuan— 1 October 1991, s.20(1), 20(2), P.U. (B) 466/1991] BE IT ENACTED by the Seri Paduka Baginda Yang di -Pertuan Agong with the advice and consent of the Dewan Negara and Dewan Rakyat in Parliament assembled, and by the authority of the same, as follows:

10 Laws of Malaysia ACT 149 PART I PRELIMINARY Short title, application and commencement 1. (1) This Act may be cited as the Pesticides Act 1974 and shall apply throughout Malaysia. (2) This Act shall come into operation on a date to be appointed by the Minister by notification in the Gazette; and the Minister may appoint different dates for the coming into operation of this Act, or of different provisions thereof, in different parts of Malaysia. Interpretation 2. (1) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires— “active ingredient” means a n ingredient, as listed in the First Schedule, which has pesticidal properties and gives pesticidal properties to a substance, material, preparation or mixture, of which the ingredient is one of the constituents of the substance, material, preparation or mixture; “Analyst” means an Analyst appointed under section 34; “analytical standard” means a substance containing an active ingredient and is used as a reference standard in the analysis of a pesticide; “animals” means— (a) animals that are useful to man as a source of food or other essential products or as beasts of burden; (b) animals that are commonly kept as domestic animals or as pets; 

Pesticides 11 (c) animals that are protected under any written law for the time being in force relating to the protection of wild life; (d) animals that are beneficial to agricultural production; or (e) animals that are valued for reasons of amenity; “authorized officer” means— (a) a Pesticides Licensing Officer; or (b) a public officer designated as an authorize d officer by the Minister by notification in the Gazette; “Board” means the Pesticides Board established under section 3; “contaminated food” means food in which there is present a pesticide, or a quantity, proportion, strength, or concentration of a pesticide, in contravention of regulations made under section 21; and a reference to the use or presence of a pesticide in food includes a reference to its use or presence on food; “food” includes every substance that is used for food or drink by man or that enters into or is used in the composition or preparation of the substance, and also includes flavouring matters and condiments, but does not include a substance or mixture of substances used by man as a medicine; “label” means any written, printed, or graphic matter— (a) fixed, secured or embossed, whether immediate or otherwise, on the package of a pesticide; or (b) accompanying a pesticide; “manufacture” in relation to a pesticide means to prepare, compound, formulate, mix, make, pack, re -pack, label, or otherwise treat the pesticide with a view to its sale, but does not include the carrying on of a bona fide research or experiment relating to a pesticide or the doing 

 Laws of Malaysia ACT 149 12 of an act or thing forming part of or incidental to such research or experiment; “pack” means to enclose in a package; “package” means anything in or by which a pesticide or any food, as the case may be, is cased, covered, closed or contained; “pest” includes bacteria, virus, fungi, weeds, insects, rodents, birds, or any other plant or animal that adversely affects or attacks animals, plants, fruits or property; “pesticide” means, subject to subsection (2)— (a) any substance that contains an active ingredient; or (b) any preparation, mixture or material that contains any one or more of the active ingredients as one of its constituents, but does not include contaminated food or any article listed in the Second Schedule; “Pesticides Licensing Officer” means a Pesticides Licensing Officer appointed under section 16; “prescribed” means prescribed by the rules or regulations; “rules” and “regulations” mean rules and regulations made under this Act; “Secretary” means the Secretary of the Board; “sell” includes offer for sale, exhibit for sale, or possess for sale any pesticide, or offer for reward any service relating to the usage of pesticides. (2) For the purposes of this Act, a pesticide shall be treated as a different pesticide from another pesticide if— 

Pesticides 13 (a) the chemical name of that pesticide is different from that of the other pesticide; (b) the trade name or trade mark of that pesticide is different from that of the other pesticide; (c) the ingredients of that pesticide are different from those of the other pesticide, in type, number, proportion, concentration, or in other respects; (d) that pesticide is differently formulated from the other pesticide; (e) that pesticide is manufactured by a manufacturer other than the manufacturer of the other pesticide; or (f) that pesticide is different in quality, nature, characteristics, or efficacy from the other pesticide. (3) For the purposes of this Act, a pesticide shall be deemed to be misbranded if— (a) its label contains a statement, design, or graphic representation relating to the pesticide that i s false or misleading in any material particular, or if its package is otherwise deceptive in respect of the contents of the package; (b) it is an imitation, or is sold under the name, of another pesticide; (c) its label does not contain such warning o r caution as is necessary and, if complied with, sufficient to prevent risk to human beings or animals; (d) any word, statement, information, or other matter required by the rules or regulations to appear on its label is not displayed thereon at all or in the prescribed manner; 

 Laws of Malaysia ACT 149 14 (e) it is not packed or labelled in the prescribed manner; (f) it has a toxicity that is different from that claimed for it; (g) it is mixed or packed with a substance so as to subsequently alter its original nature or quality; or (h) it contains a substance other than the substance or substances that it is claimed to contain. PART II THE PESTICIDES BOARD Establishment of the Board 3. For the purposes of this Act, there is hereby established a board named Pesticides Board and consisting of the following members: (a) the Director General of Agriculture, who shall be the Chairman; (b) a senior officer of the Department of Agriculture, Peninsular Malaysia, who shall be appointed by the Minister, and be the Secretary; (c) the Deputy Director General of Health (Public Health); (d) the Director General of Chemistry; (e) the Director General of the Malaysian Agricultural Research and Development Institute; (f) the Director General of the Malaysian Rubber Board; (g) the Director General of the Department of Standards, Malaysia; 

Pesticides 15 (h) the Director General of Veterinary Services; (i) the Director of Pharmaceutical Services of the Ministry of Health; (j) the Director General of Forestry, Peninsular Malaysia; (k) the Director of Agriculture, Sabah; (l) the Director of Agriculture, Sarawak; (m) the Director General of Environmental Quality; and (n) the Director General of the Malaysian Palm Oil Board. Alternate members 4. (1) The Minister may, in relation to each member of the Board, appoint, on the nomination of the member, not more than one person to be an alternate member to attend in place of the member meetings of the Board that the member is for any reason unable to attend. (2) When attend ing meetings of the Board, an alternate member shall for all purposes be deemed to be a member of the Board. Provision of facilities by Ministry 5. The Ministry responsible for the Board shall provide it with such staff, funds, and other facilities as are necessary to enable it to carry out its functions. Proceedings of the Board 6. (1) The Chairman shall preside at all meetings of the Board that he attends. 

 Laws of Malaysia ACT 149 16 (2) In the absence of the Chairman at a meeting of the Board, the members present shall el ect one of themselves to preside at the meeting. (3) The Chairman or other member presiding at a meeting of the Board shall have a deliberative vote and, if upon any question the votes are equally divided, a casting vote. (4) The Board shall meet at such places and times as the Chairman may appoint; and at a meeting of the Board seven members including the Chairman or other member presiding shall form a quorum. (5) The Board may invite any person to attend any of its meetings but the person shall have no right to vote at the meeting. (6) Subject to this section, the Board may regulate its own procedure. PART III CONTROL OF IMPORTATION AND MANUFACTURE OF PESTICIDES BY REGISTRATION AND PERMIT Application for registration of pesticides 7. (1) A person desiring to import or manufacture a pesticide shall apply to the Board in the prescribed manner for registration of the pesticide. (2) Subject to subsection (4), an applicant must with his application submit to the Board— (a) a statement of the co mmon name of the pesticide, if available, its trade name, its chemical name, and its structural formula, and of the name and concentration of every active ingredient of the pesticide; 

Pesticides 17 (b) the name and concentration of every other ingredient of the pesticide; (c) detailed toxicological information on every ingredient of the pesticide and on the pesticide as a whole; (d) all matters proposed to be included in the label of the pesticide, including instructions for, and the precautionary measures to be taken in connection with, its use the claims made for it and the proposed class of pesticide; (e) a statement as to, or a sample of, the proposed package of the pesticide; (f) reports on the efficacy and safety of the pesticide; (g) a statement of the methods of analyzing the pesticide and of the authorities or sources of information on which the statement is based; (h) a statement of the methods of determining the residue of the pesticide on plants or crops on which it is intended to be used; (i) the addresses of the place of business of the applicant and of the place where the applicant intends to store pesticides; (j) if he is a manufacturer, the name and address of the factory, building, or premises at which the applicant intends to manufacture the pesticide and an outline of the process of manufacturing the pesticide; and (k) a prescribed amount of a sample of the pesticide which the applicant intends to register. (3) The Board may require the applicant— (a) to submit to it any information relating to the pesticide other than the matters specified in subsection (2); and 

 Laws of Malaysia ACT 149 18 (b) to amend or modify the matters specified in paragraphs (2)(d) and (e) so as to comply with the rules or regulations relating thereto or, if there are no such rules or regulations for the time being, with the policy of the Board relating thereto. (4) The Board may, in any particular case, waive any of the requirements of subsection (2) or accept and act on an application that lacks any of those requirements, if it considers that it may properly act under section 8 notwithstanding the absence of that requirement. (5) Every application made to the Board under subsection (1) shall be accompanied by the prescribed application fee. Registration and refusal to register 8. (1) Upon receipt of an application duly made under and in accordance with section 7 and the rules, and after compliance by the applicant with any requirement of the Board made under subsection 7(3), the Board may, after such inquiry or investigation as it considers proper and necessary to carry out and on payment of the prescribed registration fee, register the pesticide to which the application relates subject to such conditions as the Board thinks fit to impose, state the class of pesticide, assign a registration number thereto, and issue to the applicant a certificate of registration thereof, if the Board is satisfied that— (a) all matters contained in and submitted with the application are true in all material particulars; (b) the matters propos ed to be included in the label of the pesticide, and the proposed package of the pesticide, comply with the rules or regulations relating to labeling and packaging or, if there are no such rules or regulations for the time being, with the policy of the Board relating thereto; and 

Pesticides 19 (c) the pesticide, if used or handled according to the instructions contained in its proposed label, would be efficacious and would— (i) be safe to human beings and animals; or (ii) constitute a risk to human beings and ani mals of such a minimal extent or degree as to be outweighed by the necessity or advantages of using the pesticides. (2) If the Board is not satisfied of any of the matters specified in subsection (1), it shall not register the pesticide. (3) If a st andard specification in respect of the pesticide has been declared under section 28 of the *Standards and Industrial Research Institute of Malaysia (Incorporation) Act 1975 [Act 157]— (a) in formulating its policy relating to the label and package of the pesticide for the purpose of paragraph (1) (b), the Board shall, in addition to other matters, take into consideration the relevant requirements of the standard specification and the need or otherwise of adopting any or all of those requirements; and (b) in assessing and determining the efficacy and safety of the pesticide for the purpose of paragraph (1) (c), the Board shall, in addition to other determining factors, take into consideration the relevant requirements of the standard specification, and may refuse to register the pesticide if it does not satisfy any of those requirements. (3A) For the purposes of subsection (1), the Board shall issue guidelines regarding the classification of pesticides. * NOTE— The Standards and Industrial Research Institute of Malaysia (Incorporation) Act 1975 [Act 157] has since been repealed by the Standards of Malaysia Act 1996 [Act 549]–see subsection 23(1) of Act 549. 

 Laws of Malaysia ACT 149 20 (4) Notwithstanding subsections (1), (2) and (3), if an application is made for the registration of a pesticide that is for the time being registered on the previous application of another person, the Board shall, on payment of the prescribed fee, register the pesticide on the same conditions as those imposed on the existing registration, assign a registration number thereto, and issue to the subsequent applicant a certificate of registration thereof. Period of registration 9. (1) The period of registration of a pesticide shall be five years but the pesticide may, on application by the person on whose application the pesticide was registered and on payment of the prescribed registration fee, be re-registered at the end of every five-year period. (2) An application for re -registration of a pesticide sh all be made and dealt with in the same manner as an application for registration under section 7. Power to cancel registration 10. (1) Subject to subsection (2) and without prejudice to any prosecution that may be brought under this Act or the rules or regulations, the Board may order the cancellation of the registration of a pesticide— (a) upon receipt of a notification in writing from the person on whose application the pesticide was registered, and on being satisfied, that the pesticide has been withdrawn from sale or use; (b) if the Board considers it undesirable that the pesticide should continue to remain registered owing to its toxicity, inefficacy or adverse effects on human beings, animals, plants, fruits or property; 

Pesticides 21 (c) if the pesticide does not conform to the claims made for it in its label; (d) if its label does not comply with the requirements of this Act or the rules or regulations; (e) if any of the conditions subject to which the pesticide is registered has not been observed; (f) if the Board finds that any of the matters submitted to it under subsection 7(2) is untrue in any material particular; or (g) if the Board is satisfied that the pesticide has fallen into disuse. (2) Before ordering the cancellation of the registration of a pesticide on any of the grounds in subsection (1), other than those in paragraph 1(a) thereof, the Board shall by notice in writing give the person on whose application the pesticide was registered an opportunity to show cause against the making of the order, and pending the making of such order all sales, import or manufacture of the pesticide by that person shall be suspended from the date of the receipt of the notice by him. Registrant shall inform Board about adverse effects of pesticide 10A. (1) Without prejudice to the power conferred upon the Board under section 10, the person on whose application the pesticide was registered shall inform the Board upon discovering any adverse effects of the pesticide on human beings, animals, plants, fruits or property, within sixty days from such discovery. (2) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) commits an offence. 

 Laws of Malaysia ACT 149 22 Appeal against decision of Board 11. (1) If an applicant for registration or re -registration of a pesticide is dissatisfied with the refusal of the Board to register or re-register the pesticide or if the person on whose application a pesticide was registered is dissatisfied with the order of the Board to cancel the registration of the pesticide, the applicant or person, as the case may be, may appeal to the Minister whose decision shall be final and shall not be called into question in any court. (2) In the case of an appeal against the refusal of the Board to register or re -register a pesticide, the appellant may submit to the Minister any information relating to the pesticide additional to that previously submitted to the Board on condition that it is also at the same time submitted to the Board. Gazetting of pesticides 12. As soon as possible after a pesticide has been regist ered, re- registered or removed from the register by cancellation, the Board shall cause the fact to be published in the Gazette together with particulars relating to the pesticide sufficient to identify it. Prohibitions as to importation and manufacture, and penalty 13. (1) Except as provided in sections 14 and 14 A, no person shall import or manufacture— (a) a misbranded pesticide; (b) a pesticide that is not for the time being registered on his application under this Act; or (c) a pesticide otherw ise than in accordance with the conditions subject to which it was registered on his application. 

Pesticides 23 (2) Subject to subsection (3), a person who contravenes subsection (1) commits an offence and is liable, on a first conviction, to imprisonment for five yea rs or to a fine of fifty thousand ringgit and, on a second or subsequent conviction, to imprisonment for ten years or to a fine of one hundred thousand ringgit or to both. (3) Notwithstanding subsections (1) and (2), it shall be a defence to a charge und er paragraph (1) (a) of importing or manufacturing a pesticide that is misbranded as defined in paragraph 2(3)(g) or (h), that, in the process of manufacturing or transporting the pesticide, some extraneous substance has unavoidably become intermixed with it. Importation of pesticides for educational or research purposes or as registration sample or analytical standard 14. (1) A person desiring to import a pesticide for educational or research purposes or as a registration sample or an analytical standard shall apply to the Board in the prescribed manner, and accompanied with the prescribed application fee, for a permit to import the pesticide. (2) Upon receipt of an application under subsection (1), the Board may, if it is satisfied that the pesticide d esired to be imported is intended solely for educational or research purposes or as a registration sample or an analytical standard, issue to the applicant a permit in the prescribed form subject to such conditions as the Board thinks fit to impose, including conditions as to the disposal of any unused surplus of the pesticide. (3) If an applicant for a permit under this section is dissatisfied with the refusal of the Board to issue to him the permit, he may appeal to the Minister whose decision shall be final and shall not be called into question in any court. (4) A permit issued under this section shall authorize the importation of one consignment only of one or more pesticides within a specified period. 

 Laws of Malaysia ACT 149 24 (5) The person to whom a permit is issued unde r this section may, subject to the conditions thereof, import the pesticide or pesticides named therein notwithstanding that the pesticide or pesticides are not for the time being registered under this Act on his application and notwithstanding the prohibitions in section 13 against the importation of misbranded or unregistered pesticides. (6) A person who imports a pesticide under a permit issued to him under this section but contrary to or in breach of any of the conditions of the permit commits an offence. (7) A person who imports a pesticide under a permit issued to him under this section and who uses or disposes of the pesticide otherwise than for educational or research purposes or as a registration sample or an analytical standard, commits an offe nce and is liable to imprisonment for three years or to a fine of fifty thousand ringgit. (8) The Board may delegate its functions under this section to any member thereof. Research or experiment on unregistered pesticides synthesized in Malaysia 14A. (1) A person desiring to carry out any research or experiment outside the laboratory on an unregistered pesticide synthesized in Malaysia shall apply to the Board in the prescribed manner, and accompanied with the prescribed application fee, for a permit to carry out the research or experiment. (2) Upon receipt of an application under subsection (1), the Board may, if it is satisfied that the pesticide desired to be researched or experimented on is intended solely for the purpose of research or experiment, issue to the applicant a permit in the prescribed form subject to such conditions as the Board thinks fit to impose, including conditions as to the disposal of any unused surplus of the pesticide. (3) If an applicant for a permit under this section is dissatisfied with the refusal of the Board to issue to him the permit, he may appeal to 

Pesticides 25 the Minister whose decision shall be final and shall not be called into question in any court. (4) The person to whom a permit is issued under this section may, subject to the conditions of the permit, research or experiment on the pesticide named in the permit, notwithstanding that the pesticide is not for the time being registered under this Act and notwithstanding the prohibitions in section 53 A against the possess ion or use of unregistered pesticides. (5) A person who researches or experiments on a pesticide under a permit issued to him under this section, but contrary to or in breach of any of the conditions of the permit, commits an offence. (6) A person who researches or experiments on an unregistered pesticide without a permit issued to him under this section commits an offence and is liable to imprisonment for six years or to a fine of fifty thousand ringgit. (7) The Board may delegate its functions under this section to any of its members. PART IV CONTROL OF MANUFACTURE, SALE AND STORAGE OF PESTICIDES BY LICENSING Licence to manufacture pesticides 15. (1) A person desiring to manufacture a pesticide shall apply to the Board in the prescribed manner, and accompanied with the prescribed application fee, for a licence to manufacture the pesticide. (2) Upon receipt of an application duly made under subsection (1) and in accordance with the rules, the Board may, issue to the applicant a licence in the prescribed form subject to such conditions as the Board thinks fit to impose, if the Board is satisfied that— 

 Laws of Malaysia ACT 149 26 (a) the pesticide to which the application relates is for the time being registered under this Act on the application of the applicant; (b) the applicant is technically competent to manufacture the pesticide; and (c) the applicant is aware of the toxicity of the pesticide and of the risks involved in the use and handling thereof, and is equipped with effective means of minimizing or avoiding them. (3) A licence under this section shall be valid for three years from the date of its issue but may be renewed at the end of every three-year period on payment of the prescribed application fee. Appointment of Pesticides Licensing Officers 16. For the purpose of this Act, the Minister may by notification in the Gazette appoint such number of officers of any Department of Agriculture as he considers necessary, to be Pesticides Licensing Officers for specified areas. Licence to sell or store pesticides 17. (1) A person desiring to sell or store for sale a pesticide shall, in the prescribed manner and accompanied with the prescribed application fee, apply for a licence for that purpose to the Pesticides Licensing Officer for the area in which he resides or , in the case of a body corporate or firm, in which the body corporate or firm has its place or principal place of business. (2) Upon receipt of an application duly made under subsection (1) and in accordance with the rules, the Pesticides Licensing Officer may, issue to the applicant a licence in the prescribed form subject to such conditions as the Pesticides Licensing Officer thinks fit to impose, if he is satisfied that— 

Pesticides 27 (a) the pesticide to which the application relates is for the time being registered under this Act; and (b) the applicant is aware of the toxicity of the pesticide and of the risks involved in the use and handling thereof. (3) A licence under this section— (a) shall not authorize the sale or storage for sale of a pesticide at more than one premises; (b) shall specify the premises at which the sale or storage for sale of the pesticide is authorized; (c) may authorize both the sale and storage for sale of one or more pesticides, that may be of the same class or different classes of pesticides, at the specified premises; and (d) shall be valid for three years from the date of its issue but may be renewed on payment of the prescribed application fee. Revocation and suspension of licence 18. (1) If the Board, in the case of a li cence to manufacture, or the proper Pesticides Licensing Officer, in the case of a licence to sell or store for sale, is satisfied that— (a) the application on which the licence has been granted under section 15 or 17, as the case may be, contains a misrepresentation as to a material fact; or (b) the holder of the licence has failed to comply with any of the conditions subject to which it was issued or has contravened any of the provisions of this Act or the rules or regulations, 

 Laws of Malaysia ACT 149 28 the Board or Pesticide s Licensing Officer, as the case may be, may, without prejudice to any prosecution that may be brought under this Act or the rules or regulations, but subject to subsection (2), revoke the licence, suspend it for such period as the Board or Pesticides Licensing Officer, as the case may be, thinks fit, or refuse to renew it. (2) Before acting under subsection (1), the Board or Pesticides Licensing Officer, as the case may be, shall give the holder of the licence concerned an opportunity to show cause against so acting. Appeal against decision of Board or Pesticides Licensing Officer 19. If an applicant for a licence or a holder of a licence, as the case may be, is dissatisfied with the refusal of the Board or Pesticides Licensing Officer to grant or rene w a licence under section 15 or 17, or the decision of the Board or Pesticides Licensing Officer to revoke, suspend, or refuse to renew his licence under section 18, he may appeal to the Minister whose decision shall be final and shall not be called into question in any court. Offences relating to manufacture, sale, and storage for sale 20. (1) No person shall manufacture, sell, or store for sale a pesticide unless he is licensed to do so under this Act or otherwise than in accordance with the conditions of a licence to do so issued to him under this Act. (2) No person shall sell or store for sale a pesticide other than at the premises specified in a licence issued to him under section 17. (3) No person, whether or not he is licensed under this Act, shall sell or store for sale a pesticide that is misbranded or is not for the time being registered under this Act. (4) A person who contravenes any of the provisions of this section commits an offence and is liable, on a first conviction, to imprisonment for three years or to a fine of ten thousand ringgit and, on a second or 

Pesticides 29 subsequent conviction, to imprisonment for six years or to a fine of twenty thousand ringgit or to both. PART V CONTROL OF PRESENCE OF PESTICIDES IN FOOD Regulations to control presence of pesticides in food 21. (1) The Minister may, after consulting the Board and the Minister responsible for health services, make regulations to prohibit— (a) the addition to or the use or presence in food or any specified kind thereof; or (b) the treatment of food or any specified kind thereof, of or with any specified pesticide or more than the specified quantity, proportion, strength, or concentration thereof. (2) Regulations made under subsection (1) may provide that, unless the contrary is proved, a specified contravention of any prohibition therein shall be presumed to have been committed by a specified person or persons in respect of any specified food if there is present therein a specified pesticide or a specified quantity, proportion, strength, or concentration thereof. Entry, inspection and seizure 22. An authorized officer may— (a) at all reasonable times enter into and inspect any place where he has reason to believe that there is any food intended for sale; 

 Laws of Malaysia ACT 149 30 (b) inspect any fo od, wherever found, that he has reason to believe to be intended for sale; (c) seize, detain, or remove any such food that is or appears or is believed to be contaminated food, and may mark, seal, or otherwise secure the food in order to effect seizure, detention, or removal thereof. Power to demand, select and take samples 23. (1) On payment or tender to a person selling any food, or to his agent or servant, of the current market value thereof, if demanded, an authorized officer may at any place demand, select, and take or obtain samples of the food for the purpose of analysis to determine whether the food is contaminated food. (2) If any food is kept for retail sale in an unopened package, the authorized officer shall not demand or take less than the whole of the contents of the package. (3) A person who refuses or neglects to comply with a demand made by an authorized officer in pursuance of this section commits an offence. Right to analysis of food 24. (1) A person who has bought any food shall , on payment of the prescribed fee, be entitled to have a sample of the food analysed by an Analyst in order to determine whether the food is contaminated food, and to receive from him a certificate of analysis. (2) A person, other than the seller of the food, may, on payment of the prescribed fee and the cost of the sample, require an authorized officer to purchase a sample of any food and submit it for analysis by an Analyst in order to determine whether the food is contaminated food. 

Pesticides 31 Offence of selling contaminated food 25. A person who sells any contaminated food commits an offence. Ignorance of contamination not a defence 26. In a prosecution for an offence under section 25, it shall be no defence that the accused did not know that the food in question was contaminated food unless he also proves that he had taken all reasonable steps to ascertain that the food was not contaminated food. Defence of reliance on written warranty or statement 27. (1) Subject to subsections (2) and (3), it shall b e a defence in a prosecution for an offence under section 25 that— (a) the accused purchased the food sold by him in reliance on a written warranty or other written statement as to the nature of the food, given or made by or on behalf of the person from whom he purchased it; and (b) the accused had no reason to believe that the food sold did not conform to such warranty or statement; and (c) if the food had conformed to such warranty or statement, it would not have been contaminated food. (2) No such w arranty or statement given or made by a person resident outside Malaysia shall be a defence under subsection (1) unless the accused proves that he had taken reasonable steps to ascertain, and did in fact believe in, the truth of the matters set forth in the warranty or statement. (3) No such warranty or statement shall be a defence under subsection (1) unless the accused has, within ten days after service of the summons on him— 

 Laws of Malaysia ACT 149 32 (a) delivered to the prosecutor a copy of the warranty or statement and a written notice stating that he intends to rely thereon and specifying the name and address of the person who gave or made it; and (b) sent by registered post to the person a like notice of his intention. (4) If the accused is a servant or agent of the person who purchased the food in reliance on such warranty or statement, he shall be entitled to the benefit of subsection (1) in the same manner and to the same extent as his employer or principal would have been if he had been the accused, if the accused further proves that he had no reason to believe that the food did not conform to the warranty or statement. (5) A person who, in respect of any food sold by him as principal or agent, gives or makes to the purchaser a false written warranty or other written statement as to the nature of the food commits an offence and is liable, on a first conviction, to a fine of ten thousand ringgit and, on a second or subsequent conviction, to a fine of twenty thousand ringgit, unless he proves that when he gave or made the warranty or statement he had reason to believe that the matters contained therein were true. PART VI DEATH AND INJURY OCCASIONED BY PESTICIDES Reporting of accident, death and personal injury 28. (1) Whenever an accident that occasions loss of h uman life or personal injury occurs as a result of the fumigation, spraying, or any other mode of treatment of plants, premises, or articles, including ships and vehicles, with a pesticide, the person by whom, or by whose servant or agent, the fumigation, spraying, or treatment was carried out shall forthwith send or cause to be sent to the Minister notice of the accident and of the loss of human life or personal injury. 

Pesticides 33 (2) Whenever an accident that occasions loss of human life or personal injury is suffered by an employee as a result of the handling, use, or presence of or contact with or exposure to a pesticide in the course of his employment, his employer shall forthwith send or cause to be sent to the Minister notice of the accident and of the loss of human life or personal injury. (3) Whenever a registered medical practitioner finds or has reason to believe that a person has died or suffered personal injury as a result of the handling, use, or presence of or contact with or exposure to a pesticide, the registered medical practitioner shall forthwith send or cause to be sent to the Minister notice of the death or personal injury. (4) This section shall not apply to accidents occasioning loss of human life or personal injury of which notice is requir ed by the Hydrogen Cyanide (Fumigation) Act 1953 [Act 260] to be given to the proper Minister thereunder. (5) A person who fails to comply with any of the provisions of this section commits an offence and is liable to a fine of one thousand ringgit. Inquiry into and investigation of accident, death and personal injury 29. (1) The Minister may direct an inquiry to be made by such person or persons as he may appoint into the cause of an accident, death, or personal injury of which notice is required by section 28 to be given to him and, if it appears to him, either before or after the commencement of the inquiry, that a more formal investigation of the accident, death, or personal injury and of the causes and circumstances thereof is expedient, he may direct a formal investigation to be held. (2) The following provisions shall apply to inquiries and investigations made or held under this section: (a) the Minister may appoint any person or persons possessing legal or special knowledge to assist in holding a formal 

 Laws of Malaysia ACT 149 34 investigation, or direct a Magistrate or any other person or persons to hold such an investigation with the assistance of any named assessor or assessors; (b) the persons holding a formal investigation, who hereafter in this section are referre d to as the tribunal, shall hold it in open court in such manner and under such conditions as they think most effectual for ascertaining the causes and circumstances of the accident, death, or personal injury, and for enabling them to make the report required by paragraph (f); (c) the tribunal shall, for the purpose of the investigation, have all the powers of a Magistrate when exercising jurisdiction in criminal cases and, in addition, the power— (i) to enter and inspect any place or building the entry or inspection whereof appears to them requisite; (ii) by summons under their hands, to require the attendance of all such persons as they think fit to call before them and examine, and to require to be furnished to them answers or returns to such inquiries as they think fit to make; (iii) to require the production of all books, papers, and documents that they consider important; (iv) to administer oaths and to require any person examined to make and sign a declaration of the truth of the statements made by him in his examination; (d) persons attending as witnesses before the tribunal shall be allowed such expenses as would be allowed to witnesses attending before the High Court in criminal cases, and in case of dispute as to the amount to be allowe d, the dispute shall be referred by the tribunal to any Registrar of the High Court who shall ascertain and certify the proper amount of the expenses; 

Pesticides 35 (e) if a person, without reasonable cause, proof of which shall lie on him, fails, after having had the expenses, if any, to which he is entitled tendered to him, to comply with a summons or requisition of the tribunal issued or made under paragraph (c), or prevents or impedes the tribunal in the execution of their duty, he commits an offence and is liable to a fine of five hundred ringgit, or, in the case of a failure to comply with a requisition for the furnishing of answers or returns or the production of any book, paper, or document, to a further fine of one hundred ringgit for every day on which the failure occurs or continues; (f) the person or persons appointed to make an inquiry, and the tribunal holding an investigation, under this section shall make a report to the Minister stating the causes of the accident, death, or personal injury and all the circumstances attending it, and containing such observations thereon or on the evidence or any matter arising out of the inquiry or investigation as he or they think right to include in the report, and the Minister shall cause every such report to be published in such manner as he thinks expedient. (3) All persons appointed under this section to make an inquiry or to hold or assist in holding a formal investigation, including assessors, shall be deemed to be public servants within the meaning of the Penal Code [Act 574]. Inquiry or inquest in cases of death occasioned by pesticides 30. (1) An appropriate Magistrate shall hold, under the relevant law, an inquiry or inquest in every case of death that may have been occasioned by a pesticide or in which a p esticide may have been involved, unless the case is one in which, under the relevant law, it is not necessary to hold, or the Magistrate is enjoined not to hold, an inquiry or inquest, as the case may be, by reason that criminal proceedings have been, or a re about to be, instituted or commenced against any person for having caused the death. 

 Laws of Malaysia ACT 149 36 (2) The Magistrate shall, at least seven days before holding the inquiry or inquest, send to the Minister notice in writing of the time and place of holding the inquiry or inquest. (3) If, in the course of any inquiry or inquest, it appears to the Magistrate holding the inquiry or inquest that the death that is the subject matter thereof may have been occasioned by a pesticide or was one in which a pesticide may have been involved, he shall, unless— (a) the notice required by subsection (2) had been sent; or (b) a representative of the Minister is present at the inquiry or inquest, adjourn the inquiry or inquest, but before doing so he may take evidence to identify the body. (4) The Magistrate shall, at least seven days before holding the adjourned inquiry or inquest, send to the Minister notice in writing of the time and place of holding the adjourned inquiry or inquest. (5) A representative of the Minister appea ring at an inquiry or inquest referred to in this section may, subject to the order of the Magistrate on points of law, examine any witness. (6) A copy of the notes of evidence and findings made in every such inquiry or inquest shall be furnished to the Minister without fee. (7) This section shall apply notwithstanding anything inconsistent therewith in the relevant law but shall otherwise be read and construed as one with the relevant law. (8) This section shall not apply to cases of loss of human life occasioned by accident of which notice is required by the Hydrogen Cyanide (Fumigation) Act 1953 to be given to the proper Minister thereunder. (9) In this section— 

Pesticides 37 “appropriate Magistrate” means the Magistrate to whom, under the relevant law, is forw arded by the officer in charge of a police district or a police station, the report of an investigation into the cause of a death; “relevant law” means the Criminal Procedure Code [ Act 593] or the *Inquest Ordinance of Sabah [ Ord. 6 of 1959 ] or Sarawak [Cap. 48], as the case may be. PART VII ENFORCEMENT Entry, search and seizure 31. An authorized officer may at all reasonable times enter into any place where a pesticide is or may reasonably be supposed to be kept or stored and, by himself or by some other person accompanying him and acting under his instructions and in his presence, may search the place and may— (a) examine and, on payment of the current market value thereof, if demanded, take samples of any substance found in the place and reasonab ly believed to be or to contain a pesticide; (b) require the production of, inspect, make copies of, or take extracts from, any book or record relating or reasonably believed to relate to any dealing in or with pesticides and kept or found in the place a nd may, if he has reason to believe that it may furnish evidence of the commission of an offence against this Act or the rules or regulations, seize it; *NOTE—See P.U. (A) 97/1976—Modification of Laws (Criminal Procedure) (Sabah and Sarawak) Order 1976. 

 Laws of Malaysia ACT 149 38 (c) seize, detain, or remove any substance found therein that is reasonably believed to be or to contain a pesticide in respect of which an offence against this Act or the rules or regulations is being or has been committed, and mark, seal, or otherwise secure the substance in order to effect seizure, detention, or removal thereof. Power to stop and search conveyances 32. (1) If an authorized officer has reasonable suspicion that a conveyance is carrying a pesticide in contravention of this Act or the rules or regulations or in respect of which an offence against this Act or the rules or regulations is being or has been committed, he may stop and examine the conveyance and seize any pesticide found therein in respect of which the contravention or offence is suspected to be or to have been committed and any book or document that is reasonably believed to furnish evidence of the contravention or of the commission of the offence. (2) The person in control or in charge of the conveyance shall, if required to do so by the authorized officer— (a) stop the conveyance and allow the authorized officer to examine it; and (b) open all parts of the conveyance for examination and take all measures to enable or facilitate the carrying out of such examination as the authorized officer considers necessary, and if he fails to do so he commits an offence. Identification of officers when taking action 33. (1) An authorized officer must, if not in uniform, on demand declare his office and produce to the person against whom he is acting, the prescribed certificate of indentity. 

Pesticides 39 (2) A person may refuse to comply with a request, requisition, demand, or order made by an authorized officer acting or purporting to act under this Act if he is not in uniform and refuses, on demand by the person, to declare his office and produce his certificate of identity. PART VIII ANALYSIS Appointment of Analysts 34. For the purposes of this Act, the Minister may by notification in the Gazette appoint such number of competent persons as he considers necessary, to be Analysts. Manner of taking samples 35. (1) An authorized officer shall, before or forthwith after taking or obtaining a sample of any substance under this Act for analysis, inform the seller or his agent or servant or the person apparently having possession, custody, or control of the lot from which the sample is to be or was taken or obtained that he intends to have the sample analysed by an Analyst. (2) The authorized officer shall thereupon divide the sample into three approximately equal parts and shall mark and seal or fasten, in such manner as its nature will pe rmit, each such part and shall offer one of such parts to the seller or his agent or servant or the person apparently having possession, custody, or control of the lot from which the sample was taken or obtained. (3) The authorized officer shall subsequen tly deliver, either personally by registered post or courier service, another of such parts to an Analyst, and shall retain the third of such parts for future comparison or use. 

 Laws of Malaysia ACT 149 40 (4) If the substance is in packages of small volume, the requirements of this section shall be deemed to be complied with if the authorized officer takes or obtains three unopened packages of the substance and deals with them as if they were the three parts into which the sample is required to be divided. Time to commence analysis 35A. Where any substance has been purchased, taken or obtained from a person under this Act for the purpose of analysis, the analysis of that substance shall be commenced within sixty days from the time of purchasing, taking or obtaining the substance. Court may order analysis 36. If a sample has been dealt with in accordance with section 35, the court before which a person is prosecuted for an offence against this Act or the rules or regulations shall, on the request of either the prosecutor or the a ccused, and may, if it thinks fit, without such request, order that the part of the sample retained by the authorized officer be submitted to another Analyst for analysis. Right to analysis of pesticide 37. (1) A person who has bought a pesticide shall, on payment of the prescribed fee, be entitled to have a sample of the pesticide analysed by an Analyst and to receive from him a certificate of analysis. (2) A person, other than the seller of the pesticide, may, on payment of the prescribed fee and the cost of the sample, require an authorized officer to purchase a sample of any pesticide and submit it for analysis by an Analyst. 

Pesticides 41 Certificate of Analyst 38. (1) The certificate of analysis of an Analyst shall be in the prescribed form. (2) If a method of analysis has been prescribed by regulations made under this Act for the analysis of any food or pesticide, an Analyst, whether for the prosecution or for the defence, shall follow, and shall in his certificate declare that he has followed, the prescribed method in his analysis. (3) A copy of the certificate of analysis of a sample of any food or pesticide taken or obtained by an authorized officer may, on payment of the prescribed fee, be obtained from the appropriate Analyst by the seller of the food or pesticide or his agent or servant, or by the person having possession, custody, or control of the lot from which the sample was taken or obtained. Certificate of Analyst to be prima facie evidence 39. (1) A certificate of analysis purporting to b e under the hand of an Analyst and complying with subsection 38(2) shall, on production thereof by the prosecutor, be sufficient evidence of the facts stated therein unless the accused requires that the Analyst be called as a witness, in which case he shall give notice thereof to the prosecutor not less than ten clear days before the day fixed for the hearing of the case. (2) In like manner such a certificate of analysis shall, on production thereof by the accused, be sufficient evidence of the facts stated therein unless the prosecutor requires that the Analyst be called as a witness, in which case he shall give notice thereof to the accused not less than ten clear days before the day fixed for the hearing of the case. (3) If the accused intends to put in evidence a certificate of analysis of an Analyst, he shall send to the prosecutor a certified copy of the certificate at least fourteen clear days before the day fixed for the hearing of the case, and if it has not been so sent the court may adjourn the hearing on such terms as it thinks proper. 

 Laws of Malaysia ACT 149 42 Recovery of fees and other expenses 40. (1) Where a person is convicted of an offence against this Act or the rules or regulations, the court may order that all fees and other expenses incurred in respect of the analysis of any food or pesticide in respect of which the conviction is obtained, including an analysis made pursuant to section 36, be paid by the person. (2) All such fees and expenses shall be recoverable in the same manner as a fine is recoverable. PART IX PROCEEDINGS Notice of seizure, detention or removal 41. If the seizure, detention, or removal of any substance under this Act is made in the absence of a person having or apparently having lawful possession, custody, or control of the substance, the authorized officer making or effecting the seizure, detention, or removal shall forthwith give notice thereof in writing to the owner or to the agent of the owner, or to the consignor or consignee, of the substance, if his name and address are attached thereto or, after reasonable inquiries or otherwise, are known to the authorized officer, and the address is in Malaysia. Complaints as to seizure, detention or removal 42. (1) A person claiming any substance seized, detained, or removed under this Act may, at any time, but not later than forty -eight hours, after its seizure, detention, or removal or, if notice under section 41 has been given to any person, after receipt of the notice by the person, complain thereof to a Magistrate who shall hear a nd determine the complaint and who may confirm or disallow the seizure, detention, or removal wholly or in part or order the substance to be restored to the 

Pesticides 43 person who appears to the Magistrate to be entitled to possession thereof. (2) The Magistrate shall not disallow the seizure, detention, or removal, whether wholly or in part, unless he is satisfied— (a) that it was unlawful; or (b) if it was lawful, that no contravention of this Act or the rules or regulations had occurred. (3) The substance seized, detained, or removed shall— (a) if no complaint is made under and in accordance with this section; or (b) if the seizure, detention, or removal is confirmed, to the extent of the confirmation, become the property of the Government and shall be disposed of, by destruction or otherwise, as directed by the Minister, unless it is intended to prosecute any person in respect of the substance, in which case it shall be held to abide the result of the prosecution and the order of the court under section 49. (4) Notwithstanding subsection (3)— (a) the authorized officer who has seized, detained, or removed any substance may destroy it or cause it to be destroyed if and when he finds that it has begun to deteriorate but shall, forthwith after the destruction, prepare a written statement signed by him and setting out a description and the quantity of the substance destroyed, and the date, time, method, and reason of the destruction; (b) the Minister may at any time order the restoration of the substance to any person if he thinks it just and proper to do so. 

 Laws of Malaysia ACT 149 44 Summons 43. (1) The summons in a prosecution for an offence against this Act or the rules or regulations shall not be returnable in less than twenty- one days from the date of service thereof. (2) There shall be served with the summons a copy of the certificate of analysis of an Analyst, if any, intended to be introduced in evidence by the prosecution. 44. (Deleted by Act A1226). Presumption as to importer or manufacturer 45. For the purpose of a prosecution for an offence against this Act or the rules or regulations in respect of a pesticide found in an unopened package, the person who appears from the label of the pesticide to have imported or manufactured it shall, unless he proves the contr ary, be deemed to have imported or manufactured it. Label as evidence of substance being a pesticide 45A. For the purpose of a prosecution for an offence against this Act or the rules or regulations in respect of a substance found in a package, the label on the package describing the substance to be a pesticide shall be prima facie evidence that the substance is a pesticide, unless the contrary is proved. Presumption for sale or storage for sale 45B. For the purpose of a prosecution for an offence against this Act or the rules or regulations in respect of a pesticide not registered under this Act that is found in any premises which have been licensed for the sale or storage for sale of pesticides, such pesticide shall, unless the 

Pesticides 45 contrary is proved, be deemed to be intended for sale or is being stored for sale. Liability of agent, servant, principal and employer 46. (1) If a person does an act that constitutes an offence against this Act or the rules or regulations, he shall be liable for the act whether he does it on his own account or as an agent or servant of another person. (2) If the act is done by an agent or servant, his principal or employer shall be liable for the act as if he had done it himself, unless he proves that it was done neither with his consent nor with his connivance and that it was not attributable to any neglect on his part. Liability of directors and other officers of bodies corporate 47. (1) If an offence against this Act or the rules or regulations that has been committed by a body corporate is proved to have been committed with the consent or connivance, or to have been attributable to any neglect on the part, of a director, manager, secretary, or other similar officer of the body coporate, or a person purporting to act in any such capacity, the director, manager, secretary, officer, or person, as the case may be, shall be deemed to have also committed that offence, and both he and the body corporate are liable to be proceeded against and punished therefor. (2) For the p urpose of subsection (1), the director of a body corporate that is established by or under any law and whose affairs are managed by its members, includes a member of the body corporate. Offence as to sample deemed offence as to the whole lot 48. If, in a prosecution for an offence against this Act or the rules or regulations, the offence is proved with regard to a sample of any substance, the offence shall be deemed to have been proved with regard to the whole lot from which the sample was taken or obtained or to all 

 Laws of Malaysia ACT 149 46 of the substance bought, taken, or obtained at the same time as the sample. Forfeiture of offending substances 49. (1) The court before which a person is prosecuted for an offence against this Act or the rules or regulations relating to a ny substance shall— (a) upon conviction of the person for the offence; or (b) if it is satisfied that the offence has been committed, notwithstanding that no person has been convicted thereof, order that the substance and any similar substance found i n the premises of the accused or in his possession at the time of the commission of the offence, together with all packages and vessels thereof, be forfeited and be disposed of at the direction of the Minister and in the case of disposal upon the convictio n of a person for an offence against this Act or the rules or regulations, the cost of such disposal shall be borne by the person convicted of the offence. (2) In any other case, the court shall order the restoration of the substance to the person who ap pears to the court to be entitled to possession thereof. Jurisdiction 50. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any other written law, a Court of a First Class Magistrate shall have jurisdiction to try any offence against this Act or th e rules or regulations and to impose the full penalty provided therefor. 

Pesticides 47 Privilege from disclosure 51. No prosecutor or witness in a prosecution for an offence against this Act or the rules or regulations shall be compelled to disclose the fact that he received any information or the nature of the information or the name of the person who gave the information or to produce any confidential report or document made or received by him in his official capacity or to make any statement in relation thereto. Notification of conviction 52. A notification of the name and occupation of a person who has been convicted of an offence against this Act or the rules or regulations and of the address or addresses of his place or places of business, the nature of the offence, the penalty imposed and any order made shall, if the court so orders, be published in any newspaper circulating in Malaysia or in any part thereof. PART X GENERAL Giving or making false information or statement 53. A person who, in making an application under this Act other than an application for a licence to sell or store for sale a pesticide, gives information or makes a statement that is false in any material particular, unless he proves that he did not know and had no reason to suspect that the information or statement was false and had taken all reasonable steps to ascertain the truth thereof, commits an offence and is liable to imprisonment for one year or to a fine of twenty -five thousand ringgit or to both. 

 Laws of Malaysia ACT 149 48 Possession or use of unregistered pesticides and unapproved use of pesticides 53A. (1) Except as provided in sections 14 and 14A, no person shall— (a) possess or use a pesticide that is not for the time being registered under this Act; or (b) use a pesticide otherwise than in accordance with the uses stipulated on the label, as approved by the Board. (2) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) commits an offence and is liable on a first conviction, to imprisonment for one year or to a fine of ten thousand ringgit and, on a second or subsequent conviction, to imprisonment for three years or to a fine of twenty thousand ringgit or to both. Interference with official marks 54. A person who without authority opens, alters, breaks, removes, or erases any mark, fastening, or seal placed by an authorized officer in pursuance of the provisions of this Act upon any substance or upon any package, place, door, or opening containing or affording access to the substance commits an offence. Secrecy 55. Except for the purposes of this Act or of an investigation into or prosecution for an offence against this Act or the rules or regulations, no person shall disclose any information that he has obtained in the course of his duties under this Act and if he does so he commits an offence. General penalty 56. A person who commits an offence against this Act or the rules or regulations, for which no other penalty is specifically provided 

Pesticides 49 thereby, is liable, on a first conviction, to imprisonment for six months or to a fine of five th ousand ringgit and, on a second or subsequent conviction, to imprisonment for one year or to a fine of ten thousand ringgit or to both. Rules and regulations 57. (1) The Minister may, after consulting the Board, make rules or regulations to carry out th e purposes of this Act and to give effect to the provisions thereof and in particular, but without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power, such rules or regulations may— (a) prescribe the procedure to be followed and the forms to be used in ma king applications under this Act and the fees payable therefor; (b) provide generally for matters connected with registration, licensing, and the issue of permits; (c) prescribe the procedure for appeals and showing cause under this Act; (d) prescribe the manner of testing and analyzing samples of any food or pesticide; (e) prescribe the measures to be taken and the practice to be followed or avoided by manufacturers and employers for the protection, safety, and well -being of their workers engaged in th e manufacture or handling of pesticides, including— (i) the provision of protective clothing, equipment, and facilities for the workers; (ii) the provision of facilities for medical examination of the workers; 

 Laws of Malaysia ACT 149 50 (iii) the provision of facilities for en suring first aid treatment of the workers; (iv) the giving to the workers of instruction and training in the manufacture or in any process in the manufacture of, and in handling, pesticides; and (v) the measures to be taken in cases of poisoning through the use or handling of pesticides by the workers; (f) prescribe the requirements to be fulfilled in transporting pesticides in bulk; (g) prescribe the manner of storing or keeping pesticides; (h) prescribe the manner of labelling and packing pestic ides, the matters to be displayed on labels of pesticides, and the persons liable for breaches in respect of labelling and packing; (i) provide for the dyeing or colouring of certain pesticides; (j) regulate the manner of using certain pesticides and t he precautions to be taken in respect thereof; (k) with a view to protecting persons from danger in connection with the fumigation, spraying, or any other mode of treatment of premises and articles, including ships and vehicles, and fumigation, spraying, or treatment for agricultural purposes, with a pesticide— (i) generally regulate the fumigation, spraying, or treatment; (ii) regulate the manner in which the pesticide is to be generated or applied and require the admixture therewith of any substance; 

Pesticides 51 (iii) prohibit the carrying out of fumigation, spraying, or treatment except by or under the supervision of persons having such training or experience and by such number of persons as may be specified; (iv) prohibit the carrying out of fumigation, spraying, or treatment except by persons licensed to carry it out; (v) regulate the issue, suspension, or cancellation of licences for the carrying out of fumigation, spraying, or treatment and the terms and conditions subject to which they may be issued and the fees to be charged therefor; (vi) regulate the disposal of the residues of any substance used in the fumigation, spraying, or treatment; (vii) impose temporary restrictions upon the use of any premises, article, ship, or vehicle, and require such tests as may be specified to be carried out after fumigation, spraying, or treatment; (l) regulate the advertising of pesticides; (m) provide for the control of pesticides imported under permit under section 14; (n) regulate the conduct of the duties of Pesticides Licensing Officers, Analysts, and authorized officers under this Act; (o) prescribe the fees payable under this Act; (oa) regulate the export of pesticides; and (p) prescribe anything that may be prescribed under this Act. (2) If a stand ard specification in respect of a pesticide has been declared under section 28 of the Standards and Industrial Research 

 Laws of Malaysia ACT 149 52 Institute of Malaysia (Incorporation) Act 1975, the Board, in making rules or regulations under subsection (1) prescribing the label or package of the pesticide, shall, in addition to other matters, take into consideration the relevant requirements of the standard specification and the need or otherwise of adopting any or all of those requirements. (3) Rules and regulations made under su bsection (1) may provide for presumptions, which shall be rebuttable, to facilitate the proof of acts or omissions that constitute an offence thereunder. (4) If any proceedings or prosecution under this Act or the rules or regulations or in the administration thereof a question or dispute arises as to the correctness or acceptability of the result of a test or analysis of any substance or a sample thereof, the result obtained from a test or analysis conducted in the manner prescribed under paragraph (1) (d) shall be taken and accepted to be the correct result. Amendment of Schedules 58. The Minister may from time to time, after consulting, or on the advice of, the Board, by order amend the First and Second Schedules. Exemption 59. The Minister may, by order published in the Gazette and subject to such conditions as he may specify therein, exempt any person from any provision of this Act or the rules or regulations. 

Pesticides 53 PART XI AMENDMENT, REPEAL, AND SAVING OF RELATED LAWS Removal of certain substances from F.M. 29/1952 60. (1) Subject to and except as provided by subsection (2), the *Poisons Ordinance 1952 [F.M. 29 of 1952] shall cease to apply to the substances listed in Part I of the Third Schedule to this Act and accordingly the Ordinance is amended by— (a) deleting from the Poisons List set out in the First Schedule thereto all entries relating to those substances; and (b) deleting from the Appendix to the said Poisons List the entries listed in Part II of the Third Schedule to this Act. (2) Notwithstanding subsection (1) and the other provisions of this Act— (a) a person who, by virtue of a licence issued, under the Ordinance or the regulations made thereunder, before the coming into operation of this section, would, but for this Act, be entitled to do any act or thing in relation to a substance listed in Part I of the Third Schedule to this Act may, during the period for which the licence is valid, continue to do that act or thing subject to the terms or conditions of the licence and s hall, in doing or in relation to the doing of that act or thing, continue to be governed by the Ordinance and the regulations made thereunder; (b) if the appropriate licensing authority under the Ordinance or the regulations made thereunder considers, a fter consulting the Board, that it is necessary to do so in order that the business or activities of a person referred to in *NOTE—Poisons Ordinance 1952 [F.M. 29 of 1952] has since been superseded and revised–see relevant section of the Poisons Act 1952 [Act 366]. 

 Laws of Malaysia ACT 149 54 paragraph (a) may not be unduly jeopardized by any delay in fully implementing this Act, the licensing authority may, upon the expi ry of the current licence of the person, from time to time issue to him another such licence under, in accordance with, and subject to the Ordinance and the regulations made thereunder as if they continue to apply to the substance concerned in the licence, and paragraph (a) shall apply mutatis mutandis to the person; (c) a person who would, but for this Act, be entitled to do an act or thing by virtue of subsection 4(3) or section 15 of the Ordinance shall continue to be so entitled in relation to a substance listed in Part I of the Third Schedule to this Act and shall, in doing or in relation to the doing of that act or thing, continue to be governed by the Ordinance and the regulations made thereunder; (d) a person who would, but for this Act, be entitled, by virtue of paragraph 9(1)(a), (b) or (c) of the Ordinance, to dispense, compound, or mix any of the substances listed in Part I of the Third Schedule to this Act with any other substance for the purpose of its being used for medical treatment shall continue to be so entitled and, in doing or in relation to the doing of the said acts, shall continue to be governed by the Ordinance and the regulations made thereunder; (e) regulations made under the Ordinance relating to the possession, containers, pack aging, labelling, or storing of poisons generally or of particular poisons and applicable, immediately before the coming into operation of this section, to the substances listed in Part I of the Third Schedule to this Act or to any one or more of them shal l, notwithstanding and to the exclusion of the rules and regulations made under this Act, continue to be so applicable and to be enforceable under the Ordinance until those first-mentioned regulations are amended expressly in order to remove those substanc es from the operation thereof, upon the happening of which event the rules and regulations made under this Act relating to those matters 

Pesticides 55 shall apply or be made to apply, as the case may be, to those substances. Control in Peninsular Malaysia of substances that are both poisons and pesticides 61. (1) This section shall apply in relation to a substance that is both a poison as defined in the Poisons Ordinance 1952 and a pesticide as defined in this Act. (2) A person who does an act or thing in relation t o that substance, which act or thing is authorized by or under the Ordinance or the regulations made thereunder or would not, but for this Act, constitute an offence by virtue of a licence, authorization, exemption, or exception under, or any provision of, the Ordinance or the regulations made thereunder, shall not be liable to be prosecuted under this Act or the rules or regulations for doing that act or thing. (3) A person who does an act or thing in relation to that substance, which act or thing is a uthorized by or under this Act or the rules or regulations or would not, but for the Ordinance, constitute an offence by virtue of a registration, licence, permit, authorization, exemption, or exception under, or any provision of, this Act or the rules or regulations, shall not be liable to be prosecuted under the Ordinance or the regulations made thereunder for doing that act or thing. Removal of certain substances from Sabah Cap. 100 62. (1) Subject to and except as provided by subsection (2), the *Poisons and Deleterious Drugs Ordinance of the State of Sabah [Cap. 100] shall cease to apply to the substances listed in Part III of the Third Schedule to this Act and accordingly the Ordinance is amended by deleting from the First Schedule thereto all entries relating to those substances. *NOTE—See P.U. (A) 157/1978–Modification of Laws (Dangerous Drugs and Poisons) (Extension and Modification) Order 1978. 

 Laws of Malaysia ACT 149 56 (2) The Ordinance is further amended by deleting the words “Substances for use in agriculture and horticulture” appearing against the entry “Metanitro -phenol; orthonitrophenol; and paranitrophenol” added to the First Sched ule thereto by State of Sabah Gazette No. S. 33 of 1969. (3) Notwithstanding subsection (1) and the other provisions of this Act— (a) a person who, by virtue of a licence issued under the Ordinance before the coming into operation of this section, would, but for this Act, be entitled to do any act or thing in relation to a substance listed in Part III of the Third Schedule to this Act may, during the period for which the licence is valid, continue to do that act or thing subject to the terms, conditions, or limitation of the licence and shall, in doing or in relation to the doing of that act or thing, continue to be governed by the Ordinance; (b) if the appropriate licensing authority under the Ordinance considers, after consulting the Board, that it is necessary to do so in order that the business or activities of a person referred to in paragraph (a) may not be unduly jeopardized by any delay in fully implementing this Act, the licensing authority may, upon the expiry of the current licence of the person, from time to time issue to him another such licence under, in accordance with, and subject to the Ordinance as if it continues to apply to the substance concerned in the licence, and paragraph (a) shall apply mutatis mutandis to the person; (c) a pers on who would, but for this Act, be authorized, by virtue of section 5 of the Ordinance, to import, possess, and use poisons shall continue to be so authorized and, in doing or in relation to the doing of the said acts, shall continue to be governed by the Ordinance and the regulations made thereunder; 

Pesticides 57 (d) section 8 of the Ordinance shall, notwithstanding and to the exclusion of the rules and regulations made under this Act, continue to apply where appropriate to the substances listed in Part III of the Thi rd Schedule to this Act in relation to the manner of containing, securing, distinguishing, labelling, or storing them when they are in the possession of a person or under his control, or in keeping, selling, dispensing, or delivering them, and to be enforceable under the Ordinance, until the Minister orders otherwise by notification in the Federal Gazette, upon the happening of which event the rules and regulations made under this Act relating to those matters shall apply or be made to apply, as the case may be, to those substances. Control in the State of Sabah of substances that are both poisons and pesticides 63. (1) This section shall apply in relation to a substance that is both a poison as defined in the Poisons and Deleterious Drugs Ordinance of the State of Sabah and a pesticide as defined in this Act. (2) A person who does an act or thing in relation to that substance, which act or thing is authorized by or under the Ordinance or would not, but for this Act, constitute an offence by virtue of a licence, authorization, exemption, or exception under, or any provision of, the Ordinance, shall not be liable to be prosecuted under this Act or the rules or regulations for doing that act or thing. (3) A person who does an act or thing in relation to t hat substance, which act or thing is authorized by or under this Act or the rules or regulations or would not, but for the Ordinance, constitute an offence by virtue of a registration, licence, permit, authorization, exemption, or exception under, or any p rovision of, this Act or the rules or regulations, shall not be liable to be prosecuted under the Ordinance for doing that act or thing. 

 Laws of Malaysia ACT 149 58 Removal of certain substances from Sarawak Cap. 121 64. (1) Subject to and except as provided by subsection (2), th e *Poisons Ordinance of the State of Sarawak [ Cap. 121] shall cease to apply to the substances listed in Part IV of the Third Schedule to this Act and accordingly the Ordinance is amended by deleting from the Poisons List set out in the Schedule thereto all entries shown in the said Part IV. (2) Notwithstanding subsection (1) and the other provisions of this Act— (a) a person who, by virtue of a licence issued, under the Ordinance or the rules made thereunder, before the coming into operation of this sec tion, would, but for this Act, be entitled to do any act or thing in relation to a substance listed in Part IV of the Third Schedule to this Act may, during the period for which the licence is valid, continue to do that act or thing subject to the terms, c onditions, or limitations of the licence and shall, in doing or in relation to the doing of that act or thing, continue to be governed by the Ordinance and the rules made thereunder; (b) if the appropriate licensing authority under the Ordinance or the rules made thereunder considers, after consulting the Board, that it is necessary to do so in order that the business or activities of a person referred to in paragraph (a) may not be unduly jeopardized by any delay in fully implementing this Act, the licensing authority may, upon the expiry of the current licence of the person, from time to time issue to him another such licence under, in accordance with, and subject to the Ordinance and the rules made thereunder as if they continue to apply to the substance concerned in the licence, and paragraph (a) shall apply mutatis mutandis to the person; *NOTE—See P.U. (A) 157/1978. 

Pesticides 59 (c) a person who would, but for this Act, be entitled to do an act or thing by virtue of section 7 of the Ordinance shall continue to be so entitled in relation to a substance listed in Part IV of the Third Schedule to this Act and shall, in doing or in relation to the doing of that act or thing, continue to be governed by the Ordinance and the rules made thereunder; (d) the provisions of section 9 of the Ordinance shall, notwithstanding and to the exclusion of the rules and regulations made under this Act, continue to apply where appropriate to the substances listed in Part IV of the Third Schedule to this Act in relation to the manner of containing, securing, dist inguishing, labelling or storing them when they are in the possession of a person or under his control, or in keeping, selling, dispensing, or delivering them, and to be enforceable under the Ordinance, until the Minister orders otherwise by notification i n the Federal Gazette, upon the happening of which event the rules and regulations made under this Act relating to those matters shall apply or be made to apply, as the case may be, to those substances. Control in the State of Sarawak of substances that are both poisons and pesticides 65. (1) This section shall apply in relation to a substance that is both a poison as defined in the Poisons Ordinance of the State of Sarawak and a pesticide as defined in this Act. (2) A person who does an act or thing i n relation to that substance, which act or thing is authorized by or under the Ordinance or would not, but for this Act, constitute an offence by virtue of a licence, authorization, exemption, or exception under, or any provision of, the Ordinance, shall n ot be liable to be prosecuted under this Act or the rules or regulations for doing that act or thing. 

 Laws of Malaysia ACT 149 60 (3) A person who does an act or thing in relation to that substance, which act or thing is authorized by or under this Act or the rules or regulations or would not, but for the Ordinance, constitute an offence by virtue of a registration, licence, permit, authorization, exemption, or exception under, or any provision of, this Act or the rules or regulations, shall not be liable to be prosecuted under the Ordinance for doing that act or thing. Repeal of F.M. 15/1949 and Sabah Cap. 99 66. (1) The Poisons (Sodium Arsenite) Ordinance 1949 [ F.M. 15 of 1949] and the Poisons (Agricultural and Industrial) Ordinance of the State of Sabah [Cap. 99] are repealed. (2) A person who does an act or thing in relation to sodium arsenite, which act or thing is authorized by the regulations made under the Ordinances or would not, but for this Act, constitute an offence whether by virtue of a licence, or permit under, or any provision of, the regulations, shall not be liable to be prosecuted under this Act or the rules or regulations for doing that act or thing. (3) A person who does an act or thing in relation to sodium arsenite which act or thing is authorized by or un der this Act or the rules or regulations or would not, but for the regulations made under the Ordinances, constitute an offence by virtue of a registration, licence, permit, authorization, exemption, or exception under, or any provision of, this Act or the rules or regulations, shall not be liable to be prosecuted under the regulations made under the Ordinances for doing that act or thing. (4) If it is intended to revoke the regulations in their entirety or to amend them so as to affect the provisions the reof relating to the right to deal in sodium arsenite, such revocation or amendment shall not be made to have effect until at least one year after the publication of the revocation or amendment. 

Pesticides 61 Amendment of F.M. 29/1952 67. The Poisons Ordinance 1952 is amended by deleting subsection 21(3). FIRST SCHEDULE (Section 2) LIST OF ACTIVE INGREDIENT EXPLANATION 1. In the following list the common name and the chemical name or, if no common name is provided, the chemical name only, are sufficient t o determine the identity of a pesticide. 2. The sign of “ = ” indicates continuity of spelling and is used when a word or name is separated owing to limitation of space. Common names Chemical names Abamectin A mixture of : (a) (10E,14E,16E,22Z)-(1R,4S,5’S,6S,6’R,8R,12S,= 13S,20R,21R,24S)-6’-[(S)-sec-butyl]-21,24-= dihydroxy-5’,11,13,22-tetramethyloxo-3,7,19-= trioxatetracyclo[15.6.1.14.8.020.24]pentacosa-= 10,14,16,22-tetraenespiro-2’-(5’,6’-dihydro-= 2’H-pyran)yl 2,6-dideoxyO-(2,6-dideoxy-= 3-O-methyl-α-L-arabino-hexopyranosyl)O-= methyl-α-L-arabino-hexopyranoside; and (b) (10E,14E,16E,22Z)-(1R,4S,5’S,6S,6’R,8R,12S,= 13S,20R,21R,24S)-21,24-dihydroxy-6’-isopropyl-= 5’,11,13,22-tetramethyloxo-3,7,19-trioxatetra= cyclo-[15.6.1.14.8.020.24]pentacosa-10,14,16,22-= tetraenespiro-2’-(5’,6’-dihydro-2’H-pyran)= yl 2,6-dideoxyO-(2,6-dideoxyO-methyl-α-L-= 

 Laws of Malaysia ACT 149 62 Common names Chemical names arabino-hexopyranosyl)O-methyl-α-L-arabino-= hexopyranoside Abscisic acid (2Z,4E)[(1S)hydroxy hidroksi -2,6,6-trimethyl= oxocyclohexenyl]methylpenta-2,4-dienoic acid Acephate O,S-dimethyl acetylphosphoramidothioate Acequinocyl 3-dodecyl-1,4-dihydro-1,4-dioxonaphthyl acetate Acetamiprid (E)-N1 -[(6-chloropyridyl)methyl]-N2-cyano-N1-= methylacetamidine Acethion S-(ethoxycarbonylmethyl) O,O-diethyl phosphorodithioate Acetochlor 2-chloro-N-ethoxymethyl-6'-ethylaceto-o-toluidide Acetophos S-(ethoxycarbonylmethyl) O,O-diethyl phosphorothioate Acetoprole 1-[5-amino(2,6-dichloro-α,α,α-trifluoro-p-tolyl)-= 4-(methylsulfinyl)pyrazolyl]ethanone Acibenzolar (including its salts and esters) Benzo[1,2,3]thiadiazolecarbothioic S-acid Acibenzolar-S-methyl S-methyl benzo[1,2,3]thiadiazolecarbothioate Acifluorfen (including its salts) 5-(2-chloro-α,α,α-trifluoro-p-tolyloxy)nitrobenzoicacid Aclonifen 2-chloronitrophenoxyaniline Acrinathrin (S)-α-cyanophenoxybenzyl (Z)-(1R,3S)-2,2-= dimethyl[2-(2,2,2-tifluorotrifluoromethyl= ethoxycarbonyl)vinyl]cyclopropanecarboxylate Acrolein Propenal 

Pesticides 63 Common names Chemical names Acynonapyr (1R,5R)[2-propoxy(trifluoromethyl)= phenoxy] {[5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin= yl]oxy}azabicyclo[3.3.1]nonane [endo stereo required] Acypetacs (including its salts) A reaction mixture of C8 to C10 linear and branched chain saturated aliphatic carboxylic acids, the branched chain acids being a mixture of approximately equal parts by the following mass: (a) acids in which the main chain is dialkyl substituted on the second carbon atom; and (b) acids in which the second carbon atom is either unsubstituted or monoalkyl-substituted Adoxophyes orana granulosis virus - Agrobacterium radiobacter - Afidopyropen [(3S,4R,4aR,6S,6aS,12R,12aS,12bS)= (cyclopropylcarbonyloxy)-1,2,3,4,4a,5,6,6a,12a,12b-= decahydro-6,12-dihydroxy-4,6a,12b-trimethyl= oxo(3-pyridyl)-11H,12H-benzo[f]pyrano= [4,3-b]chromenyl]methyl cyclopropanecarboxylate Alachlor 2-chloro-2',6'-diethyl-N-methoxymethylacetanilide Alanycarb Ethyl (Z)-N-benzyl-N-[[methyl(1 methylthioethyli= deneamino-oxycarbonyl)amino]thio]-ß-alaninate Aldicarb 2-methyl(methylthio)propionaldehyde O-methyl= carbamoyloxime Aldimorph 4-alkyl-2,5(or 2,6)-dimethylmorpholines, containing 65– 75% 2,6 -dimethylmorpholines and 25 –35% 2,5 -= dimethylmorpholines, where more than 85% of the total is 4- dodecyl-2,5(or 2,6) -dimethylmorpholine, and where “alkyl” may also be octyl, decyl, tetradecyl or hexadecyl, and where the cis/trans ratio is 1:1 

 Laws of Malaysia ACT 149 64 Common names Chemical names Aldoxycarb 2-mesylmethylpropionaldehyde O-methyl= carbamoyloxime Aldrin (HHDN) (1R,4S,4aS,5S,8R,8aR)-1,2,3,4,10,10-hexachloro-1,4,= 4a,5,8,8a-hexahydro-1,4:5,8-dimethanonaphthalene Allethrin [(1R)-isomers] (RS)allylmethyloxocyclopentenyl (+)-= cis-trans-chrysanthemate Allicin S-allyl propenesulfinothioate Allidochlor N,N-diallychloroacetamide Allosamidin (3aR,4R,5R,6S,6aS)dimethylamino-4,5,6,6a-= tetrahydrohydroxyhydroxymethyl-= 3aH-cyclopenta[d][1,3] oxazolyl 2-acetamidoO-= (2-acetamidodeoxy-β-D-allopyranosyl)deoxy-= β-D-allopyranoside Alloxydim (including its salts) Methyl(E)-(RS)[1-(allyloxyimino)butyl]hydroxy-= 6,6-dimethyloxocyclohexenecarboxylate Allyl alcohol Allyl alcohol Allyxycarb 4-diallylamino-3,5-xyly methylcarbamate Alorac (Z)-perchlorooxopentenoic acid Alpha-bromadiolone Mixture from ≥ 80% rel[(1R,3R)(4′-= bromo[1,1′-biphenyl]yl)hydroxyphenyl= propyl]hydroxy-2Hbenzopyranone and ≤ 20% rel[(1R,3S)(4′-bromo[1,1′-biphenyl]= yl)hydroxyphenylpropyl]hydroxy-= 2Hbenzopyranone Alpha-cypermethrin A racemate comprising of— (a) (R)-α-cyanophenoxybenzyl (1S,3S)(2,2-= dichlorovinyl)-2,2-dimethylcyclopropanecarboxylate; and (b) (S)-α-cyanophenoxybenzyl (1R,3R)(2,2-= dichlorovinyl)-2,2-dimethylcyclopropanecarboxylate 

Pesticides 65 Common names Chemical names or A racemate comprising of— (a) (R)-α-cyanophenoxybenzyl (1S)-cis(2,2-= dichlorovinyl)-2,2-dimethylcyclopropanecarboxylate; and (b) (S)-α-cyanophenoxybenzyl (1R)-cis(2,2-= dichlorovinyl)-2,2-dimethylcyclopropanecarboxylate Aluminium phosphide Aluminium phosphide Ametoctradin 5-ethyloctyl[1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-a]pyrimidinamine Ametridione 1-aminoethylthioneopentyl-1,3,5-triazine-= 2,4(1H,3H)-dione Ametryn N2-ethyl-N4-isopropylmethylthio-1,3,5-triazine-= 2,4-diamine Amibuzin 6-tert-butyldimethylaminomethyl-1,2,4-triazin-5= (4H)-one Amicarbazone 4-amino-N-tert-butyl-4,5-dihydroisopropyloxo-= 1H-1,2,4-triazolecarboxamide Amicarthiazol 2-aminomethyl-1,3-thiazolecarboxanilide Amidithion Smethoxyethylcarbamoylmethyl O,O-= dimethylphosphorodithioate Amidoflumet Methyl 5-chloro{[(trifluoromethyl)sulfonyl] amino}= benzoate Amidosulfuron 1-(4,6-dimethoxypyrimidinyl)mesyl(methyl)= sulfamoylurea Aminocarb 4-dimethylamino-m-totyl methylcarbamate Aminocyclopyrachlor 6-aminochlorocyclopropylpyrimidinecarboxylic acid 

 Laws of Malaysia ACT 149 66 Common names Chemical names Aminopyralid (including its salts and esters) 4-amino6-dichloropyridinecarboxylic acid Aminopyrifen (4-phenoxyphenyl)methyl 2-amino= methylpyridinecarboxylate Amiprofos-methyl (RS)(O-methyl Onitro-p-tolyl isopropyl phosphor= amidothioate) Amisulbrom 3-(3-bromofluoromethylindolylsulfonyl)-= N,N-dimethyl-1H-1,2,4-triazolesulfonamide Amiton Sdiethylaminoethyl O,O-diethyl phosphorothioate Amitraz N-methylbis(2,4-xylyliminomethyl)amine Amitrole 1H-1,2,4-triazolylamine Ammonium nonanoate Ammonium nonanoate Ammonium sulfamate Ammonium sulfamidate Amobam Diammonium ethylenebis(dithiocarbamate) Ampelomyces quisqualis - Ampropylfos (RS)aminopropylphosphonic acid Anabasine (including its salts) (S)(piperidinyl)pyridine Anagrapha california NPV - Anagrapha falcifera NPV - Ancymidol α-cyclopropylmethoxy-α-(pyrimidinyl)benzyl alcohol Anilazine 4,6-dichloro-N-(2-chlorophenyl)-1,3,5-triazinamine Anilofos Schloro-N-isopropylcarbaniloylmethyl O,O-dimethyl= phosphorodithioate Anticarsia gemmatalis NPV - 

Pesticides 67 Common names Chemical names Anisuron 1-(3,4-dichlorophenyl)(4-methoxybenzoyl)-3,3-= dimethylurea Antraquinone Anthraquinone Antu 1-(1-naphthyl)thiourea Aramite (RS)(4-tert-butylphenoxy)methylethyl 2-chloroethyl= sulfite Arsenous oxide Arsenic(III) oxide Asomate Arsinetriyl tris(dimethyldithiocarbamate) Asulam Methyl sulfanilylcarbamate Athidathion O,O-diethyl S-2,3-dihydromethoxyoxo-1,3,4-= thiadiazolylmethyl phosphorodithioate Atraton N2-ethyl-N4-isopropylmethoxy-1,3,5-triazine-2,4-= diamine Atrazine 6-chloro-N2-ethyl-N4-isopropyl-1,3,5-triazine-2,4-= diamine Autographa californica NPV - Azaconazole 1-[[2-(2,4-dichlorophenyl)-1,3-dioxolanyl]methyl]-= 1H-1,2,4-triazole Azadirachtin Dimethyl[2aR-[2aα,3β,4β (1aR*,2S*,3aS*,6aS*,7S*,= 7aS*),4aβ,5α.7aS*,8β (E),10β,10aα,10bβ]]= (acetyloxy)octahydro-3,5-dihydroxymethyl[(2-= methyloxobutenyl)oxy](3a,6a,7,7a-tetrahydro-= 6a-hydroxy-7a-methyl-2,7-methanofuro[2,3-b]oxireno= [e]oxepin-1a(2H)-yl)-1H,7H-naphtho[1,8-bc',4,4a-c']= difuran-5,10a(8H)-dicarboxylate Azafenidin 2-(2,4-dichloropropynyloxyphenyl)-5,6,7,8-= tetrahydro-1,2,4-triazolo[4,3-a]pyridin-3(2H)-one Azamethiphos Schloro-2,3-dihydrooxo-1,3-oxazolo[4,5-b]= pyridinylmethyl O,O-dimethyl phosphorothioate 

 Laws of Malaysia ACT 149 68 Common names Chemical names Azimsulfuron 1-(4,6-dimethoxypyrimidinyl)[1-methyl(2-= methyl-2H-tetrazolyl)-pyrazolylsulfonyl]urea Azinphos-ethyl S-(3,4-dihydrooxobenzo[d]-[1,2,3]-triazinyl= methyl) O,O-diethyl phosphorodithioate Azinphos-methyl S-(3,4-dihydrooxobenzo[d]-[1,2,3]-triazinyl= methyl) O,O-dimethyl phosphorodithioate Aziprotryne 4-azido-N-isopropylmethylthio-1,3,5-triazinylamine Azithiram Bis(3,3-dimethylthiocarbazoyl) disulfide Azobenzene Azobenzene or diphenyldiazene Azocyclotin Tri(cyclohexyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazolyltin Azothoate O-[4-[(4-chlorophenyl)azo]phenyl ] O,O-dimethyl phosphorothioate Azoxystrobin Methyl (E){2-[6-(2-cyanophenoxy)pyrimidin= yloxy]phenyl}methoxyacrylate Bacillus cereus (UPM 1415) - Bacillus fimus - Bacillus pumilus - Bacillus sphaericus - Bacillus subtilis - Bacillus subtilis var. amyloliquefaciens - Bacillus subtilis MBI 600 - Bacillus subtilis QST 713 - Bacillus thuringiensis - 

Pesticides 69 Common names Chemical names Bacillus thuringiensis delta endotoxin - Bacillus thuringiensis isolates for control of the Plutella group of Lepidoptera - Bacillus thuringiensis isolates for control of Coleoptera - Bacillus thuringiensis isolates for control of the Spodoptera group of Lepidoptera - Bacillus thuringiensis isolates for control of the Lepidoptera and Coleoptera - Bacillus thuringiensis encapsulated delta-endotoxins for control of Coleoptera - Bacillus thuringiensis isolate for control of soil-inhabiting Coleoptera - Bacillus thuringiensis encapsulated delta-endotoxins for control of Spodoptera group of Coleoptera - Bacillus thuringiensis isolates for control of Diptera - Bacillus thuringiensis encapsulated delta-endotoxins for control of Plutella of Lepidoptera - Bathrin (6-chloro-1,3-benzodioxolyl)methyl (1RS,3RS;1RS,= 3SR)-2,2-dimethyl(2-methylpropenyl)cyclo= propanecarboxylate 

 Laws of Malaysia ACT 149 70 Common names Chemical names Barban 4-chlorobutynyl 3-chlorocarbanilate BCPC (RS)-sec-butyl 3-chlorocarbanilate Beauveria brongniartii - Beauveria bassiana - Beauveria bassiana (Balsamo) Vuillemin - Beflubutamid (RS)-N-benzyl(α,α,α,4-tetrafluoro-m-tolyloxy)= butyramide Benalaxyl Methyl N-phenylacetyl-N-2,6-xylyl-DL-alaninate Benalaxyl-M Methyl N-phenylacetyl-N-2,6-xylyl-D-alaninate Benazolin (including its salts and esters) 4-chlorooxobenzothiazolinylacetic acid Bencarbazone 4-[4,5-dihydromethyloxo(trifluoromethyl)-1H-= 1,2,4-triazolyl][(ethylsulfonyl)amino]fluoro= benzenecarbothioamide Benclothiaz 7-chloro-1,2-benzothiazole Bendiocarb 2,2-dimethyl-1,3-benzodioxolyl methylcarbamate Benfendizone Methyl 2-{5-ethyl[4-(1,2,3,6-tetrahydromethyl-= 2,6-dioxotrifluoromethylpyrimidinyl)phenoxy= methyl]phenoxy}propionate Benfluralin N-butyl-N-ethyl-α,α,α-trifluoro-2,6-dinitro-p-toluidine Benfuracarb Ethyl N-[2,3-dihydro-2,2-dimethylbenzofuranyloxy= carbonyl(methyl)aminothiol]-N-isopropyl-β-alaninate Benfuresate 2,3-dihydro-3,3-dimethylbenzofuranyl ethanesulfonate Benodanil 2-iodobenzanilide 

Pesticides 71 Common names Chemical names Benoxafos S-5,7-dichloro-1,3-benzoxazolylmethyl O,O-diethyl= phosphorodithioate Benquinox 2′-(4-hydroxyiminocyclohexa-2,5-dienylidene)benzo= hydrazide Benomyl Methyl 1-(butylcarbamoyl)benzimidazolylcarbamate Bensulfuron (including its salts and esters) α-(4,6-dimethoxypyrimidinylcarbamoylsulfamoyl)= o-toluic acid Bensulide Sbenzenesulfonamidoethyl O,O-di-isopropyl = phosphorodithioate Bensultap S,S'dimethylaminotrimethylene di(benzenethio= sulfonate) Bentaluron 1-(1,3-benzothiazolyl)isopropylurea Bentazone (including its salts) 3-isopropyl-1H-2,1,3-benzothiadiazin-4(3H)-one 2,2-= dioxide Benthiavalicarb (including its salts and esters) [(S){[(1R)(6-fluoro-1,3-benzothiazolyl)ethyl]= carbamoyl}methylpropyl]carbamic acid Benthiocarb S-(4-chlorobenzyl)-N,N-diethylthiolcarbamate Bentranil 2-phenyl-3,1-benzoxazinone Benzadox (including its salts) Benzamido-oxyacetic acid Benzalkonium chloride A mixture of alkylbenzyldimethylammonium chlorides Benzamacril (including esters) 2-cyano(N-methylbenzylamino)acrylic acid Benzamizole N[3-(1-ethylmethylpropyl)isoxazolyl]-2,6-= dimethoxybenzamide Benzamorf Morpholinium 4-dodecylbenzenesulfonate 

 Laws of Malaysia ACT 149 72 Common names Chemical names Benzfendizon Methyl (RS)(5-ethyl{4-[1,2,3,6-tetrahydro= methyl-2,6-dioxo(trifluoromethyl)pyrimidin= yl]phenoxymethyl}phenoxy)propionate Benzipram N-benzyl-N-isopropyl-3,5-dimethylbenzamide Benzobicyclon 3-(2-chloromesylbenzoyl)phenylthiobicyclo= [3.2.1]octenone Benzofenap 2-[4-(2,4-dichloro-m-toluoyl)-1,3-dimethylpyrazol-= 5-yloxy]-4'-methylacetophenone Benzofluor 4′-ethylthio-2′-(trifluoromethyl)methylsulfonanilide Benzohydroxamic acid Benzohydroxamic acid or N-hydroxybenzamide Benzovindiflupyr N-[(1RS,4SR)(dichloromethylene)-1,2,3,4-= tetrahydro-1,4-methanonaphthalenyl]= (difluoromethyl)methylpyrazolecarboxamide Benzoximate 3-chloro-α-ethoxyimino-2,6-dimethoxybenzyl benzoate Benzoylprop (including its esters) N-benzoyl-N-(3,4-dichlorophenyl)-DL-alaninate Benzpyrimoxan 5-(1,3-dioxanyl){[4-(trifluoromethyl)= phenyl]methoxy}pyrimidine Benzthiazuron 1-(1,3-benzothiazolyl)methylurea Benzyl benzoate Benzyl benzoate Berberine 9,10-dimethoxy-5,6-dihydro[1,3]dioxolo[4,5-g]iso= quino[3,2-a]isoquinolinium Beta-cyfluthrin A reaction mixture comprising of four diastereoisomeric pairs of enantiomers— (a) (R)-α-cyanofluorophenoxybenzyl (1R)-cis-3= -(2,2-dichlorovinyl)-2,2-dimethylcyclopropane= carboxylate + (S)-α, (1S)-cis-; (b) ( S)-α, (1R)-cis- + (R)-α, (1S)-cis-; (c) ( R )-α , (1R)–trans- + (S)-α, (1S)-trans-; and (d) ( S )-α , (1R)–trans- + (R)-α, (1S)-trans- 

Pesticides 73 Common names Chemical names (contain <2% diastereoisomer I, 30 -40% diastereoisomer II, < 3% diastereoisomer III and 53-67% diastereoisomer IV) Beta-cypermethrin A reaction mixture comprising the enantiomeric pair— (R)-α-cyanophenoxybenzyl (1S,3S)(2,2-dichloro= vinyl)-2,2-dimethylcyclopropanecarboxylate; and (S)-α-cyanophenoxybenzyl (1R,3R)(2,2-dichloro= vinyl)-2,2-dimethylcyclopropanecarboxylate in ratio approximately 2:3 with the enantiomeric pair (R)-α-cyanophenoxybenzyl (1S,3R)(2,2-dichloro= vinyl)-2,2-dimethylcyclopropanecarboxylate; and (S)-α-cyanophenoxybenzyl (1R,3S)(2,2-dichloro= vinyl)-2,2-dimethylcyclopropanecarboxylate or Reaction mixture comprising the enantiomeric pair— (R)-α-cyanophenoxybenzyl (1S)-cis(2,2-dichloro= vinyl)- 2,2-dimethylcyclopropanecarboxylate; and (S)-α-cyanophenoxybenzyl (1R)-cis(2,2-dichloro= vinyl)- 2,2-dimethylcyclopropanecarboxylate in ratio approximately 2:3 with the enantiomeric pair— (R)-α-cyanophenoxybenzyl (1S)-trans(2,2-= dichlorovinyl)-2,2-dimethylcyclopropanecarboxylate; and (S)-α-cyanophenoxybenzyl (1R)-trans(2,2-= dichlorovinyl)-2,2-dimethylcyclopropanecarboxylate Bethoxazin 3-benzo[b]thienyl-5,6-dihydro-1,4,2-oxathiazine = 4-oxide BHC (including all isomers)- see also HCH 1,2,3,4,5,6-hexachlorocyclohexane 

 Laws of Malaysia ACT 149 74 Common names Chemical names Bicyclopyrone 4-hydroxy{2-[(2-methoxyethoxy)methyl]= (trifluoromethyl)pyridylcarbonyl}bicyclo[3.2.1]oct-= 3-enone Bifenazate Isopropyl 3-(4-methoxybiphenylyl)carbazate; or isopropyl 2-(4-methoxybiphenylyl)hydrazinoformate Bifenox Methyl 5-(2,4-dichlorophenoxy)nitrobenzoate Bifenthrin 2-methylbiphenylylmethyl (Z)-(1RS,3RS)(2-= chloro-3,3,3-trifluoropropenyl)-2,2-dimethylcyclo= propanecarboxylate Bifujunzhi Methyl (2Ξ)(fluoromethoxy)(2-{[(3,5,6-= trichloropyridinyl)oxy]methyl}phenyl)prop-= 2-enoate Bilanafos or bialaphos (including its salts and esters) (2S)amino[hydroxy(methyl)phosphinoyl]butyryl-= L-alanyl-L-alanine Binapacryl 2-sec-butyl-4,6-dinitrophenyl 3-methylbutenoate Bingqingxiao Ethyl (2Ξ)cyano(methylsulfanyl)(2-= nitroanilino)propenoate Bioallethrin ((S)- cyclopentenyl isomer) or S- bioallethrin (S)allylmethyloxocyclopentenyl (1R,3R)-= 2,2-dimethyl(2-methylpropenyl)cyclopropane= carboxylate Bioallethrin or D-trans allethrin (RS)allymethyloxocyclopentenyl (1R,3R)-= 2,2-dimethyl(2-methylpropenyl)cyclopropane= carboxylate Bioethanomethrin 5-benzylfurylmethyl (1R,3R)cyclopentyl= idenemethy-2,2-dimethylcyclopropanecarboxylate Biopermethrin 3-phenoxybenzyl(1R)-trans(2,2-dichlorovinyl)-2,2-= dimethyl cyclopropanecarboxylate Bioresmethrin 5-benzylfurylmethyl(1R,3R)-2,2-dimethyl(2-= methylpropenyl)cyclopropanecarboxylate 

Pesticides 75 Common names Chemical names Biphenyl Biphenyl Bismerthiazol (including its salts) 5,5'-(methylenediimino)bis-1,3,4-thiadiazole-2(3H)-= thione Bispyribac (including its salts and esters) 2,6-bis(4,6-dimethoxypyrimidinyloxy)benzoic acid Bistrifluron 1-[2-chloro-3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl](2,6-= difluorobenzoyl)urea Bitertanol 1-(biphenylyloxy)-3,3-dimethyl(1H-1,2,4-triazol-= 1-yl)butanol [ ratio for racemate (1RS,2RS) and (1RS,2SR) is 20:80] Bixafen N-(3′,4′-dichlorofluorobiphenylyl)= (difluoromethyl)methylpyrazolecarboxamide Blasticidin-S 1-(4-amino-1,2-dihydrooxopyrimidinyl)[(S)-= 3-amino(1-methylguanidino)valeramido]-1,2,3,4-= tetradeoxy-β-D-erythro-hexenopyranuronic acid Borax - see also disodium teraborate (hydrous and anhydrous) Disodium tetraborate decahydrate, including hydrous and anhydrous Bordeaux mixture A mixture, with or without stabilising agents, of calcium hydroxide and copper(II) sulfate Boscalid 2-chloro-N-(4′-chlorobiphenylyl)nicotinamide BPMC or fenobucarb 2-s-butylphenyl N-methylcarbamate Brodifacoum 3-[3-(4'-bromobiphenylyl)-1,2,3,4-tetrahydro= naphthyl]hydroxycoumarin Brofenvalerate (αRS)(4-bromophenoxy)-α-cyanobenzyl (2RS)(4-= chlorophenyl)methylbutyrate Broflanilide N-[2-bromo(1,1,1,2,3,3,3-heptafluoropropan= 

 Laws of Malaysia ACT 149 76 Common names Chemical names yl)(trifluoromethyl)phenyl]fluoro(N-= methylbenzamido)benzamide Brofluthrinate (αRS)(4-bromophenoxy)-α-cyanobenzyl (2RS)[4-= (difluoromethoxy)phenyl]methylbutyrate Bromacil 5-bromosec-butylmethyluracil Bromadiolone 3-[3-(4'-bromobiphenylyl)hydroxyphenyl= propyl]hydroxycoumarin Bromethalin α,α,α-trifluoro-N-methyl-4,6,dinitro-N-(2,4,6-= tribromophenyl)-o-toluidine Bromethrin 5-benzylfurylmethyl (1RS,3RS;1RS,3SR)(2,2-= dibromovinyl)-2,2-dimethylcyclopropanecarboxylate Bromfenvinfos 2-bromo(2,4-dichlorophenyl)vinyl diethyl phosphate Bromoacetamide N-bromoacetamide Bromobonil 2,6-dibromocyanophenyl tetrahydrofurfuryl carbonate Bromobutide 2-bromo-3,3-dimethyl-N-(1-methylphenylethyl)= butyramide Bromocyclen 5-bromomethyl-1,2,3,4,7,7-hexachlorobicyclo[2.2.1]= heptene Bromo-DDT 2,2-bis(4-bromophenyl)-1,1,1-trichloroethane Bromofenoxim 3,5-dibromohydroxybenzaldehyde 2,4-= dinitrophenyloxime Bromophos Obromo-2,5-dichlorophenyl O,O-dimethyl phosphorothioate Bromophos-ethyl Obromo-2,5-dichlorophenyl O,O-diethyl phosphorothioate Bromopropylate Isopropyl 4,4'-dibromobenzilate Bromothalonil (2RS)bromo(bromomethyl)glutaronitrile 

Pesticides 77 Common names Chemical names Bromoxynil (including its salts and esters) 3,5-dibromohydroxybenzonitrile Brompyrazon 5-aminobromophenylpyridazin-3(2H)-one Bromuconazole 1-[(2RS,4RS:2RS,4SR)bromo(2,4-dichloro= phenyl)tetrahydrofurfuryl]-1H-1,2,4-triazole Bronopol 2-bromonitropropane-1,3-diol Bufencarb A reaction product in which the main components are— (a) 3-(1-methylbutyl)phenyl methylcarbamate; and (b) 3-(1-ethylpropyl)phenyl methylcarbamate Bupirimate 5-butylethylaminomethylpyrimidinyl dimethyl= sulfamate Buprofezin 2-tert-butyliminoisopropylphenyl-1,3,5-= thiadiazinanone Burgundy mixture A mixture of copper sulfate and disodium carbonate Butacarb 3,5-di-tert-butylphenyl methylcarbamate Butachlor N-butoxymethylchloro-2',6'-diethylacetanilide Butafenacil 1-(allyloxycarbonyl)methylethyl 2-chloro= [1,2,3,6-tetrahydromethyl-2,6-dioxo(trifluoro= methyl)pyrimidinyl]benzoate Butam - see also tebutam N-benzyl-N-isopropylpivalamide Butamifos O-ethyl Onitro-m-tolyl sec-butylphosphoramidothioate Butathiofos Otert-butylpyrimidinyl O,O-diethyl phosphoro= thioate 

 Laws of Malaysia ACT 149 78 Common names Chemical names Butethrin (EZ)chlorophenylbutenyl (1RS,3RS;1RS,3SR)-= 2,2-dimethyl(2-methylpropenyl)cyclopropane= carboxylate Butenachlor (Z)-N-butenyloxymethylchloro-2',6'-diethyl= acetanilide Buthidazole 3-(5-tert-butyl-1,3,4-thiadiazolyl)hydroxy= methylimidazolidone Buthiobate Butyl 4-tert-butylbenzyl N-(3-pyridyl)dithiocarbon= imidate Buthiuron 1-(5-butylsulfonyl-1,3,4-thiadiazolyl)-1,3-dimethylurea Butocarboxim 3-(methylthio)butanone O-methylcarbamoyloxime Butonate Dimethyl 1-butyryloxy-2,2,2-trichloroethylphosphonate Butopyronoxyl Butyl 3,4-dihydro-2,2-dimethyloxo-2H-pyran= carboxylate Butoxycarboxim 3-methylsulfonylbutanone O-methylcarbamoyloxime Butralin N-sec-butyltert-butyl-2,6-dinitroaniline Butroxydim (5RS)(3-butyryl-2,4,6-trimethylphenyl)[(EZ)= (ethoxyimino)propyl]hydroxycyclohexenone Buturon 3-(4-chlorophenyl)methyl(1-methylpropynyl)= urea Butylate S-ethyl di-isobutylthiocarbamate Cacodylic acid Hydroxydimethylarsine oxide Cadusafos S,S-di-sec-butyl O-ethyl phosphorodithioate Cafenstrole N,N-diethylmesitylsulfonyl-1H-1,2,4-triazole= carboxamide 

Pesticides 79 Common names Chemical names Calciferol (3β,5Z,7E,22E)-9,10-secoergosta-5,7,10(19),22-= tetraenol Calvinphos 2,2-dichlorovinyl dimethyl phosphate compound with calcium bis(2,2-dichlorovinyl methyl phosphate) (1:1) Cambendichlor 2,2'-(phenylimino)diethylene bis(3,6-dichloro-o-anisate) Camphechlor - see also toxaphene A mixture of chlorinated camphenes containing 67-69% chlorine Camphor (1RS,4RS)-1,7,7-trimethylbicyclo[2.2.1]heptanone; or (±)-bornanone Candida oleophila - Capsaicin 8-methyl-N-vanillyl-transnonenamide Captafol N-(1,1,2,2-tetrachloroethylthio)cyclohexene-1,2-= dicarboximide Captan N-(trichloromethylthio)cyclohexene-1,2-dicarbox= imide Carbamorph Morpholinomethyl dimethyldithiocarbamate Carbanolate 6-chloro-3,4-xylyl methylcarbamate Carbaryl 1-naphthyl methylcarbamate Carbasulam Methyl 4-(methoxycarbonylsulfamoyl)carbanilate Carbendazim Methyl benzimidazolylcarbamate Carbetamide (R)(ethylcarbamoyl)ethyl carbanilate Carbofuran 2,3-dihydro-2,2-dimethylbenzofuranyl methyl= carbamate Carbophenothion Schlorophenylthiomethyl O,O-diethyl phosphoro= dithioate 

 Laws of Malaysia ACT 149 80 Common names Chemical names Carbosulfan 2,3-dihydro-2,2-dimethylbenzofuranyl (dibutyl= aminothio)methylcarbamate Carboxazole Methyl 5-tert-butyl-1,2-oxazolylcarbamate Carboxin 5,6-dihydromethyl-1,4-oxathi-inecarboxanilide Carfentrazone (including its salts and esters) (RS)chloro{2-chloro[4-(difluoromethyl)-4,5-= dihydromethyloxo-1H-1,2,4-triazolyl]= fluorophenyl}propionic acid Carpropamid A mixture of 2 isomeric pairs (1R*,3S*)-2,2-dichloro-N-= [(1R)(4-chlorophenyl)ethyl]ethyl= methylcyclopropanecarboxamide and (1R*,3S*)-2,2-= dichloro-N-[(1S)(4-chlorophenyl)ethyl]ethyl= methylcyclopropanecarboxamide where the first paircited comprises at least 95% of the total Cartap (including its salts) S,S’-(2-dimethylaminotrimethylene) bis(thiocarbamate) Carvacrol 5-isopropylmethylphenol Carvone (RS)isopropenylmethylcyclohexenone; or (RS)-p-mentha-6,8-dienone CDEA 2-chloro-N,N-diethylacetamide Cellocidin Butynediamideoracetylenedicarboxamide CEPC 2-chloroethyl 3-chlorocarbanilate Cheshunt mixture A mixture of copper sulfate and diammonium carbonate Chinomethionat 6-methyl-1,3-dithiolo[4,5-b]quinoxalineone Chlobenthiazone 4-chloromethylbenzothiazol-2(3H)-one Chlomethoxynil or chlomethoxyfen 5-(2,4-dichlorophenoxy)nitroanisole Chloprazophos O-(3-chloromethylpyrazolo[1,5-d]pyrimidinyl)= O,O-diethyl phosphorothioate 

Pesticides 81 Common names Chemical names Chloralose (R)-1,2(2,2,2-trichloroethylidene)-α-D-glucofuranose Chloramben 3-amino-2,5-dichlorobenzoic acid Chlorantraniliprole 3-bromo-N-[4-chloromethyl(methylcarbomoyl)= phenyl(3-chloropyridineyl)1H-pyrazolecarbox= amide Chloraniformethan N-[2,2,2-trichloro(3,4-dichloroanilino)ethyl] forma= mide Chloranil Tetrachloro-p-benzoquinone Chloranocryl 3’,4’-dichloromethylacrylanilide Chlorazifop (±)[4-(3,5-dichloropyridyloxy)phenoxy]propionic= acid Chlorazine 6-chloro-N2,N2,N4,N4-tetraethyl-1,3,5-triazine-2,4-diamine Chlorbenside 4-chlorobenzyl 4-chlorophenyl sulfide Chlorbenzuron 1-(2-chlorobenzoyl)(4-chlorophenyl)urea; or 2-chloro-N-[(4-chlorophenyl)carbamoyl]benzamide Chlorbicyclen 1,2,3,4,7,7-hexachloro-5,6-bis(chloromethyl)-8,9,10-= trinorbornene Chlorbromuron 3-(4-bromochlorophenyl)methoxymethylurea Chlorbufam 1-methylpropynyl 3-chlorocarbanilate Chlordane 1,2,4,5,6,7,8,8-octachloro-2,3,3a,4,7,7a-hexahydro-= 4,7-methanoindane Chlordecone Perchloropentacyclo[5.3.0.02,6.03,9.04,8]decaneone Chlordimeform (including its salts) N2-(4-chloro-o-tolyl)-N1,N1-dimethylformamidine Chlorempenthrin (1RS,2EZ)ethynylmethylpentenyl (1RS,3RS;= 1RS,3SR)(2,2-dichlorovinyl)-2,2-dimethyl cyclo= propanecarboxylate; or 

 Laws of Malaysia ACT 149 82 Common names Chemical names (1RS,2EZ)ethynylmethylpentenyl (1RS)-cis-= trans(2,2-dichlorovinyl)-2,2- dimethylcyclopropane= carboxylate Chlorethoxyfos (±)-O,O-diethyl O-(1,2,2,2-tetrachloroethyl)= phosphorothioate Chloreturon 3-(3-chloroethoxyphenyl)-1,1-dimethylurea Chlorfenac (including its salts) (2,3,6-trichlorophenyl)acetic acid Chlorfenapyr 4-bromo(4-chlorophenyl)ethoxymethyl= trifluoromethyl-1H-pyrrolecarbonitrile Chlorfenazole 2-(2-chlorophenyl)benzimidazole Chlorfenethol 1, 1,1-bis-(4-chlorophenyl)ethanol Chlorfenprop (including its esters and salts) (RS)chloro(4-chlorophenyl)propionic acid Chlorfenson 4-chlorophenyl 4-chlorobenzenesulfonate Chlorfensulphide 4-chlorophenyl (EZ)-2,4,5-trichlorobenzenediazosulfide Chlorfenvinphos (EZ)chloro(2,4-dichlorophenyl)vinyl diethyl= phosphate Chlorfluazuron 1-[3,5-dichloro(3-chlorotrifluoromethylpyridyl= oxy)phenyl](2,6-difluorobenzoyl)urea Chlorflurazole 4,5-dichlorotrifluoromethylbenzimidazole Chlorfluren (including its salts and esters) (RS)chlorofluorenecarboxylic acid Chlorflurenol (including its salts and esters) (RS)chlorohydroxyfluorenecarboxylic acid Chloridazon 5-aminochlorophenylpyridazin-3(2H)-one Chlorimuron (including its salts and esters) 2-(4-chloromethoxypyrimidinylcarbamoyl= sulfamoyl)benzoic acid 

Pesticides 83 Common names Chemical names Chlormephos S-chloromethyl O,O-diethyl phosphorodithioate Chlornidine N,N-bis(2-chloroethyl)-2,6-dinitro-p-toluidine Chlornitrofen 4-nitrophenyl 2,4,6-trichlorophenyl ether Chloroacetic acid (including its salts) Chloroacetic acid Chlorobenzilate Ethyl 4,4’-dichlorobenzilate Chlorodinitronaphthalene 1-chloro-2,4-dinitronaphthalene Chloromebuform N1-butyl-N2-(4-chloro-o-tolyl)-N1-methylformamidine Chloromethiuron 3-(4-chloro-o-tolyl)-1,1-dimethylthiourea Chloroneb 1,4-dichloro-2,5-dimethoxybenzene Chlorophacinone 2-[2-(4-chlorophenyl)phenylacetyl]indan-1,3-dione Chloropicrin Trichloronitromethane Chloropon 2,2,3-trichlorpropionic acid Chloroprallethrin (1S)methyloxo(propynyl)= cyclopentenyl (1R,3S)(2,2-= dichloroethenyl)-2,2-dimethylcyclopropane-= 1-carboxylate Chloropropylate Isopropyl 4,4’-dichlorobenzilate Chlorothalonil Tetrachloroisophthalonitrile Chlorotoluron 3-(3-chloro-p-tolyl)-1,1-dimethylurea Chloroxuron 3-[4-(4-chlorophenoxy)phenyl]-1,1-dimethylurea Chloroxynil 3,5-dichlorohydroxybenzonitrile Chlorphoxim 2-(2-chlorophenyl)(diethoxyphosphinothioyloxy= imino)acetonitrile 

 Laws of Malaysia ACT 149 84 Common names Chemical names Chlorphthalim N-(4-chlorophenyl)cyclohexene-1,2-dicarboximide Chlorprazophos O-(3-chloromethylpyrazolo[1,5-a]pyrimidin= yl) O,O-diethyl phosphorothioate Chlorprocarb Methyl 3-[1-(chloromethyl)propylcarbamoyloxy]= carbanilate Chlorpropham Isopropyl 3-chlorocarbanilate Chlorpyrifos O,O-diethyl O-3,5,6-trichloropyridyl phosphorothioate Chlorpyrifos-methyl O,O-dimethyl O-3,5,6-trichloropyridyl phosphorothioate Chlorquinox 5,6,7,8-tetrachloroquinoxaline Chlorsulfuron 1-(2-chlorophenylsulfonyl)(4-methoxymethyl-= 1,3,5-triazinyl)urea Chlorthal (including its esters) Tetrachloroterephthalic acid Chlorthiamid 2,6-dichlorothiobenzamide Chlorthiophos O-2,5-dichloromethylthiophenyl O,O-diethyl = phosphorothioate Chlozolinate Ethyl (±)(3,5-dichlorophenyl)methyl-2,4-dioxo-= oxazolidinecarboxylate Cholecalciferol (5Z,7E)-(3S)-9,10-secocholesta-5,7,10(19)-trienol Chondrostereum purpureum - Chromafenozide 2′-tert-butylmethyl-2′-(3,5-xyloyl)chromane= carbohydrazide Cinerin I (Z)-(S)(butenyl)methyloxocyclopentenyl= (1R,3R)-2,2-dimethyl(2-methylpropenyl)cyclo= propanecarboxylate; (Z)-(S)(butenyl)methyloxocyclopentenyl= (1R)-trans-2,2-dimethyl(2-methylpropenyl)cyclo= propanecarboxylate; or 

Pesticides 85 Common names Chemical names (Z)-(S)(butenyl)methyloxocyclopentenyl= (+)-trans-chrysanthemate Cinerin II (Z)-(S)(butenyl)methyloxocyclopentenyl= (E)-(1R,3R)(2-methoxycarbonylpropenyl)-2,2-= dimethylcyclopropanecarboxylate; (Z)-(S)(butenyl)methyloxocyclopentenyl= (E)-(1R)-trans(2-methoxycarbonylpropenyl)-2,2-= dimethylcyclopropanecarboxylate; or (Z)-(S)(butenyl)methyloxocyclopentenyl= pyrethate Cinidon-ethyl Ethyl (Z)chloro[2-chloro(cyclohexene-1,2-= dicarboximido)phenyl]acrylate Cinmethylin (1RS,2SR,4SR)-1,4-epoxy-p-menthyl 2-methylbenzyl= ether Cinosulfuron 1,(4,6-dimethoxy-1,3,5-triazinyl)[2-(2-methoxy= ethoxy)phenylsulfonyl]urea Cisanilide Cis-2,5-dimethylpyrrolidinecarboxanilide Cismethrin 5-benzylfurylmethyl (1R,3S)-2,2-dimethyl(2-= methylpropenyl)cyclopropanecarboxylate; or 5-benzylfurylmethyl (1R)-cis-2,2-dimethyl(2-= methylpropenyl)cyclopropanecarboxylate Citronella oil - Citronellal - Citronellol - Clacyfos (1RS)(dimethoxyphosphinoyl)ethyl (2,4-dichloro= phenoxy) acetate; or dimethyl [(1RS)(2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetoxy)ethyl]= phosphonate 

 Laws of Malaysia ACT 149 86 Common names Chemical names Clethodim (±)[(E)[(E)chloroallyloxyimino]propyl[2-= (ethylthio)propyl]hydroxycyclohexenone Clenpirin N-[(2EZ)butylpyrrolidinylidene]-3,4-dichloroaniline Cliodinate 2-chloro-3,5-di-iodopyridyl acetate Clodinafop (including esters) (R)[4-(5-chlorofluoropyridyloxy)phenoxy]= propionic acid Cloethocarb 2-(2-chloromethoxyethoxy)phenyl methylcarbamate Clofentezine 3,6-bis(2-chlorophenyl)-1,2,4,5-tetrazine Clofop (including esters) (±)[4-(4-chlorophenoxy)phenoxy]propionic acid Clomazone 2-(2-chlorobenzyl)-4,4-dimethyl-1,2-oxazolidinone Clomeprop (RS)(2,4-dichloro-m-tolyloxy)propionanilide Cloprop (including its salts and esters) (RS)(3-chlorophenoxy)propionic acid Cloproxydim (±)[1-(3-chloroallyloxy)iminobutyl](2-ethylthio= propyl) hydroxycyclohexenone Clopyralid (including esters) 3,6-dichloropyridinecarboxylic acid Cloransulam (including its salts and esters) 3-chloro(5-ethoxyfluoro[1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-= c]pyrimidinylsulfonamido)benzoic acid; or 3-chloro-N-(5-ethoxyfluoro[1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-= c]pyrimidinylsulfonyl)anthranilic acid Clothianidin (E)(2-chloro-1,3-thiazolylmethyl)methyl= nitroguanidine Cloxylacon 3′-chloromethoxy-N-[(3RS)-tetrahydrooxofuran= yl]acet-2′,6′-xylidide CMA Calcium bis(hydrogen methylarsonate) 

Pesticides 87 Common names Chemical names Colletotrichum gloeosporioides f. Sp. Aeschynomene - Colophonate Schloro-1,3-thiazolylmethyl O,O-dimethyl= phosphorodithioate Coniothyrium minitans - Copper pyrithione 2-pyridinethioloxide, copper salt; or bis (1-hydroxy-1H-pyridinethionato-O,S) copper Coumachlor 3-[1-(4-chlorophenyl)oxobutyl]hydroxycoumarin Coumafuryl 3-[1-(2-fury)oxobutyl]hydroxycoumarin Coumaphos Ochloromethyloxo-2H-chromenyl O,O-= diethyl phosphorothioate Coumatetralyl 4-hydroxy(1,2,3,4-tetrahydronaphthyl)coumarin Coumethoxystrobin Methyl (2E){2-[(3,4-dimethyloxo-2H-chromen= yl)oxymethyl]phenyl}methoxyacrylate Coumithoate O,O-diethyl O-(7,8,9,10-tetrahydrooxo-6H-benzo= [c]chromenyl)phosphorothioate Coumoxystrobin Methyl (2E){2-[(3-butylmethyloxo-2H-chromen-= 7-yl)oxymethyl]phenyl}methoxyacrylate 4-CPA 4-chlorophenoxyacetic acid 4-CPB 4-(4-chlorophenoxy)butyric acid CPMC 2-chlorophenyl methylcarbamate CPMF (EZ)chloro-N2-(3,4-dichlorophenyl)-N1,N1-dimethyl= formamidine 4-CPP (RS)(4-chlorophenoxy)propionic acid CPPC (RS)chloromethylethyl 3-chlorocarbanilate 

 Laws of Malaysia ACT 149 88 Common names Chemical names Credazine Pyridazinyl o-tolyl ether Crimidine 2-chloro-N,N,6-trimethylpyrimidinamine Crotoxyphos 1-phenylethyl 3-(dimethoxyphosphinoyloxy)isocrotonate Crufomate 4-tert-butylchlorophenyl methylmethylphos= phoramidate Cryolite Trisodium hexafluoroaluminate(3−) Cufraneb Ethylenebis(dithiocarbamate) mixed metal complex containing not less than 8.15%(m/m) of zinc, 8.05%(m/m) of manganese, 5.5%(m/m) of copper and 1.0%(m/m) of iron Cumyluron 1-(2-chlorobenzyl)(1-methylphenylethyl)urea Cupric hydrazinium sulfate Copper (II) dihydrazinium disulfate Cuprobam Tricopper dichloride dimethyldithiocarbamate Curcumenol (1S,2S,5S,8R)isopropylidene-2,6-dimethyl= oxatricyclo[6.2.1.01,5]undecenol Cyanamide Calcium cyanamide Cyanatryn 2-(4-ethylaminomethylthio-1,3,5-triazinylamino)= methylpropiononitrile Cyanazine 2-(4-chloroethylamino-1,3,5-triazinylamino)= methylpropiononitrile Cyanofenphos Cynogen Ocyanophenyl O-ethyl phenylphosphonothioate Ethanedinitrile Cyanophos Ocyanophenyl O,O-dimethyl phosphorothioate Cyanthoate S-[N-(1-cyanomethylethyl)carbamoylmethyl]O,O-= diethyl phosphorothioate Cyantraniliprole 3-bromo(3-chloropyridyl)-4′-cyano-2′-methyl-6′-= (methylcarbamoyl)pyrazolecarboxanilide 

Pesticides 89 Common names Chemical names Cyazofamid 4-chlorocyano-N,N-dimethylp-tolylimidazole= sulfonamide Cybutryne N2-tert-butyl-N4-cyclopropylmethylthio-1,3,5-= triazine-2,4-diamine Cyclafuramid N-cyclohexyl-2,5-dimethylfuramide Cyclaniliprole 2′,3-dibromo-4′-chloro(3-chloropyridyl)-6′-= {[(1RS)cyclopropylethyl]carbamoyl}pyrazole= carboxanilide Cyclethrin (RS)[(RS)-cyclopentenyl]methyloxocyclo= pentenyl (1RS,3RS;1RS,3SR)-2,2-dimethyl(2-= methylpropenyl)cyclopropanecarboxylate; or (±)cyclopentenylmethyloxocyclopent= enyl (±)-cis-trans-chrysanthemate Cycloate S-ethyl N-cyclohexyl (N-ethyl)thiocarbamate Cycloheximide 4-{(2R)[(1S,3S,5S)-3,5-dimethyloxocyclohexyl]-= 2-hydroxyethyl}piperidine-2,6-dione Cycloprate Hexadecyl cyclopropanecarboxylate Cycloprothrin (RS)-α-cyanophenoxybenzyl (RS)-2,2-dichloro= (4-ethoxyphenyl)cyclopropanecarboxylate Cyclopyrimorate 6-chloro(2-cyclopropylmethylphenoxy)pyridazin= yl morpholinecarboxylate Cyclosulfamuron 1-[2-(cyclopropylcarbonyl)anilinosulfonyl](4,6-= dimethoxypyrimidinyl)urea Cycloxydim (±)[1-(ethoxyimino)butyl]hydroxythian= ylcyclohexenone Cycluron 3-cyclo-octyl-1,1-dimethylurea Cydia pomonella granulosis virus - 

 Laws of Malaysia ACT 149 90 Common names Chemical names Cyenopyrafen (E)(4-tert-butylphenyl)cyano(1,3,4-= trimethylpyrazolyl)vinyl 2,2-dimethylpropionate Cyflufenamid (Z)-N-[α-(cyclopropylmethoxyimino)-2,3-difluoro= (trifluoromethyl)benzyl]phenylacetamide Cyflumetofen 2-methoxyethyl (RS)(4-tert-butylphenyl)cyano-= 3-oxo(α,α,α-trifluoro-o-tolyl)propionate Cyfluthrin (RS)--cyanofluorophenoxybenzyl (1RS, 3RS;= 1RS,3SR)(2,2-dichlorovinyl)-2,2-dimethylcyclo= propanecarboxylate Cyhalodiamide 3-chloro-N2-(2-cyanopropanyl)-N1-= [4-(1,1,1,2,3,3,3-heptafluoropropanyl)= methylphenyl]benzene-1,2-dicarboxamide Cyhalofop (including esters) (R)[4-(4-cyanofluorophenoxy)phenoxy] propionic= acid Cyhalothrin (RS)-α-cyanophenoxybenzyl (1RS,3RS)[(Z)= chloro-3,3,3-trifluoropropenyl]-2,2-dimethylcyclo= propanecarboxylate; or (RS)-α-cyanophenoxybenzyl (1RS)-cis[(Z)= chloro-3,3,3-trifluoropropenyl]-2,2-dimethylcyclo= propanecarboxylate Cyhexatin Tricyclohexyltin hydroxide Cymiazole N-[(2EZ)methyl-1,3-thiazol-2(3H)-ylidene]-2,4-= Xylidine Cymoxanil 1-(2-cyanomethoxyiminoacetyl)ethylurea Cyometrinil (Z)-cyanomethoxyimino(phenyl)acetonitrile Cypendazole Methyl 1-(5-cyanopentylcarbamoyl)benzimidazol= ylcarbamate Cypermethrin RS-α-cyanophenoxybenzyl (1RS,3RS;1RS,3SR)= (2,2-dichlorovinyl)-2,2-dimethylcyclopropanecarboxylate 

Pesticides 91 Common names Chemical names Cyperquat 1-methylphenylpyridinium Cyphenothrin [ (1R)-trans-isomers] (RS)- α-cyanophenoxybenzyl (IRS,3RS;1RS,3SR)-= 2,2-dimethyl(2-methylpropenyl)cyclopropane= carboxylate Cyprazine 6-chloro-N2-cyclopropyl-N4-isopropyl-1,3,5-triazine-= 2,4-diamine Cyprazole N-[5-(2-chloro-1,1-dimethylethyl)-1,3,4-thiadiazol= yl]cyclopropanecarboxamide Cyproconazole (2RS,3RS;2RS,3SR)(4-chlorophenyl)cyclopropyl= (1H-1,2,4-triazolyl)butanol Cyprodinil 4-cyclopropylmethyl-N-phenylpyrimidinamine Cyprofuram (±)-α-[N-(3-chlorophenyl)cyclopropanecarboxamido]= γ-butyrolactone Cypromid 3',4'-dichlorocyclopropanecarboxyanilide Cyromazine N-cyclopropyl-1,3,5-triazine-2,4,6-triamine Cythioate O,O-dimethyl Osulfamoylphenyl phosphorothioate 2,4-D (including its salts and esters) (2,4-dichlorophenoxy)acetic acid 2,4-DB (including its salts and esters) 4-(2,4-dichlorophenoxy)butyric acid DAEP Sacetamidoethyl O,O-dimethylphosphorodithioate Daimuron 1-(1-methylphenylethyl)p-tolylurea Dalapon (including its salts) 2,2-dichloropropionic acid Dazomet 3,5-dimethyl-1,3,5-thiadiazinanethione DCIP Bis(2-chloromethylethyl) ether 

 Laws of Malaysia ACT 149 92 Common names Chemical names DDT Isomer pp’-DDT : 1,1,1-trichloro-2,2-bis-(4-chloro= phenyl)ethane Isomer op-DDT : 1,1,1-trichloro(2-chlorophenyl)= (4-chlorophenyl)ethane Debacarb 2-(2-ethoxyethoxy)ethyl benzimidazolylcarbamate Decafentin Decyltriphenylphosphonium bromochlorotriphenyl= stannate(IV) Decarbofuran 2,3-dihydromethylbenzofuranyl-methylcarbamate Delachlor 2-chloro-N-(isobutoxymethyl)acet-2',6'-xylidide Deltamethrin (S)-α-cyanophenoxybenzyl (1R,3R)(2,2-dibromo= vinyl)-2,2-dimethylcyclopropanecarboxylate Demephion A mixture of O,O dimethyl Omethylthioethyl phosphorothioate and O,O-dimethyl Smethylthio= ethyl phosphorothioate Demeton A mixture of demeton-O and demeton-S Demeton-methyl A mixture of demeton-O-methyl and demeton-S-methyl Demeton-O O,O-diethyl Oethylthioethyl phosphorothioate Demeton-O-methyl 2-ethylthioethyl dimethyl phosphorothionate Demeton-S O,O-diethyl Sethylthioethyl phosphorothioate Demeton-S-methyl Sethylthioethyl O,O-dimethyl phosphorothioate Demeton-S-methylsulphone Sethylsulfonylethyl O,O-dimethyl phosphorothioate 2,4-DEP A mixture of— (a) tris [2-(2,4-dichlorophenoxy)ethyl] phosphate; and (b) bis[2-(2,4-dichlorophenoxy)ethyl] phosphonate Desmedipham Ethyl 3-phenylcarbamoyloxyphenylcarbamate 

Pesticides 93 Common names Chemical names Desmetryne N2-isopropyl-N4-methylmethylthio-1,3,5-triazine-= 2,4-diamine Diafenthiuron 1-tert-butyl(2,6-di-isopropylphenoxyphenyl)= thiourea Dialifos Schlorophthalimidoethyl O,O-diethyl phospho= rodithioate Di-allate S-2,3-dichloroallyl di-isopropyl(thiocarbamate) Diamidafos Phenyl N,N'-dimethylphosphorodiamidate Diatomaceous earth - Diazinon O,O-diethyl Oisopropylmethylpyrimidinyl= phosphorothioate Dibromochloropropane 1,2-dibromochloropropane Dicamba (including its salts and esters) 3,6-dichloro-o-anisic acid Dicapthon Ochloronitrophenyl O,O-dimethyl phosphorothioate Dichlobenil 2,6-dichlorobenzonitrile Dichlobentiazox 3-(3,4-dichloro-1,2-thiazolylmethoxy)-= 1λ6,2-benzothiazole-1,1-dione Dichlofenthion O-2,4-dichlorophenyl O,O-diethyl phosphorothioate Dichlofluanid N-dichlorofluoromethylthio-N',N'-dimethyl-N-= phenylsulfamide Diclofop-P-methyl Methyl (R)[4-(2,4-dichlorophenoxy)phenoxy]= propionate Dichlone 2,3-dichloro-1,4-naphthoquinone Dichloralurea 1,3-bis(2,2,2-trichlorohydroxyethyl)urea Dichlormate 3,4-dichlorobenzyl methylcarbamate 

 Laws of Malaysia ACT 149 94 Common names Chemical names Dichlorophen (including its salts) 4,4'-dichloro-2,2'-methylenediphenol 1,3-Dichloropropene (EZ)-1,3-dichloropropene Dichlorprop (including its salts and esters) (RS)(2,4-dichlorophenoxy)propionic acid Dichlorprop-P (including its salts and esters) (R)(2,4-dichlorophenoxy)propionic acid Dichlorvos 2,2-dichlorovinyl dimethyl phosphate Dichlozoline 3-(3,5-dichlorophenyl)-5,5-dimethyl-1,3-oxazolidine-= 2,4-dione Diclobutrazol (2RS,3RS)(2,4-dichlorophenyl)-4,4-dimethyl= (1H-1,2,4-triazolyl)pentanol Diclocymet (RS)cyano-N-[(R)(2,4-dichlorophenyl)ethyl]-3,3-= dimethylbutyramide Diclofop (including esters) (RS)[4-(2,4-dichlorophenoxy)phenoxy]propionic acid Diclomezine 6-(3,5-dichloromethylphenyl)pyridazin-3(2H)-one Dicloran 2,6-dichloronitroaniline Dicloromezotiaz 1-[(2-chloro-1,3-thiazolyl)methyl](3,5-= dichlorophenyl)methyl-2,4-dioxo-3,4-= dihydro-2H-pyrido[1,2-a]pyrimidiniumide Diclosulam 2′,6′-dichloroethoxyfluoro[1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]= pyrimidinesulfonanilide Dicofol 2,2,2-trichloro-1,1-bis-(4-chlorophenyl)ethanol Dicrotophos 3-dimethoxyphosphinoyloxy-N,N-dimethylisocroto= namide Dicryl 3',4'-dichloromethylacrylanilide Dicyclanil 4,6-diaminocyclopropylaminopyrimidine= 

Pesticides 95 Common names Chemical names carbonitrile Dicyclocymet Toluylene diisocyanate and 4,4'-methylenebis-(cyclo= hexyl isocyanate) Dicyclosulam 2′,6′-dichloroethoxyfluoro[1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-= c]pyrimidinesulfonanilide Dieldrin (HEOD) (1R,4S,4aS,5R,6R,7S,8S,8aR)-1,2,3,4,10,10-= hexachloro-1,4,4a,5,6,7,8,8a-octahydro-6,7-epoxy-= 1,4:5,8-dimethanonaphthalene Dienochlor Perchloro-1,1'-bicyclopenta-2,4-diene Diethamquat 1,1'-bis(diethylcarbamoylmethyl)-4,4'-bipyridinium Diethatyl (including its salts and esters) N-chloroacetyl-N-(2,6-diethylphenyl)glycine Diethofencarb Isopropyl 3,4-diethoxycarbanilate Diethyltoluamide N,N diethyl-m-toluamide Difenacoum 3-(3-biphenylyl-1,2,3,4-tetrahydronaphthyl)= hydroxy coumarin Difenoconazole Cis,transchloro[4-methyl(1H-1,2,4-triazol= ylmethyl)-1,3-dioxolanyl]phenylchlorophenyl ether Difenopenten (including esters) (E)-(±)[4-(,,-trifluoro-p-tolyloxy)phenoxy]= pentenoic acid Difenoxuron 3-[4-(4-methoxyphenoxy)phenyl]-1,1-dimethylurea Difenzoquat (including its salts) 1,2-dimethyl-3,5-diphenylpyrazolium Difethialone 3-[(1RS,3RS;1RS,3SR)(4'-bromobiphenylyl)-1,2,3,4- tetrahydro-1,naphthyl]hydroxybenzothi-inone where ratios of the racemates (1RS,3RS) to (1RS,3SR) lie in the range 0-15 to 85-100 

 Laws of Malaysia ACT 149 96 Common names Chemical names Diflovidazine 3-(2-chlorophenyl)(2,6-difluorophenyl)-1,2,4,5-= tetrazine Diflubenzuron 1-(4-chlorophenyl)(2,6-difluorobenzoyl)urea Diflufenican 2',4'-difluoro(,,-trifluoro-m-tolyloxy)nicotinanilide Diflufenzopyr (including its salts) 2′,6′-dichloroethoxyfluoro[1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]= pyrimidinesulfonanilide Diflumetorim (RS)chloro-N-{1-[4-(difluoromethoxy)phenyl]= propyl}methylpyrimidinylamine Dihydroazadirachtin - Dimefluthrin 2,3,5,6-tetrafluoro(methoxymethyl)benzyl (1RS,3RS;1RS,3SR)-2,2-dimethyl(2-methylprop= enyl)cyclopropanecarboxylate; or 2,3,5,6-tetrafluoro(methoxymethyl)benzyl (1RS)-= cis,trans-2,2-dimethyl(2-methylprop= enyl)cyclopropanecarboxylate Dimefox Tetramethylphosphorodiamidic fluoride Dimefuron 3-[4-(5-tert-butyl-2,3-dihydrooxo-1,3,4-oxadiazol-= 3-yl)chlorophenyl]-1,1-dimethylurea Dimepiperate Smethylphenylethyl piperidinecarbothioate Dimetan 5,5-dimethyloxocyclohexenyl dimethylcarbamate Dimethachlor 2-chloro-N-(2-methoxyethyl)aceto-2',6'-xylidide Dimethametryn N2-(1,2-dimethylpropyl)-N4-ethylmethylthio-= 1,3,5-triazine-2,4-diamine Dimethenamid (RS)chloro-N-(2,4-dimethylthienyl)-N-= (2-methoxymethylethyl)acetamide Dimethipin 2,3-dihydro-5,6-dimethyl-1,4-dithi-ine 1,1,4,4-tetraoxide 

Pesticides 97 Common names Chemical names Dimethirimol 5-butyldimethylaminomethylpyrimidinol Dimethoate 2-dimethoxyphosphinothioylthio-N-methylacetamide; or O,O-dimethyl S-methylcarbamoylmethyl phosphoro= dithioate Dimethomorph (E,Z)[3-(4-chlorophenyl)(3,4-dimethoxyphenyl)= acryloyl]morpholine (E to Z normally ratio 1:1) Dimethrin 2,4-dimethylbenzyl(1RS)-cis,trans-2,2-dimethyl= (2-methylpropenyl)cyclopropanecarboxylate Dimethyl disulfide Dimethyl disulfide Dimethylvinphos (Z)chloro(2,4-dichlorophenyl)vinyl dimethyl= phosphate Dimetilan 1-dimethylcarbamoylmethylpyrazolyl dimethyl= carbamate Dimexano O,O-dimethyl dithiobis(thioformate) Dimidazon 4,5-dimethoxyphenylpyridazin-3(2H)-one Dimoxystrobin Dimpropyridaz (E)(methoxyimino)-N-methyl[α-(2,5-xylyloxy)= -o-tolyl]acetamide 1-[(1RS)-1,2-dimethylpropyl]-N-ethylmethyl-N- pyridazin-4yl-1H-pyrazolecarboxamide Dinex 2-cyclohexyl-4,6-dinitrophenol Diniconazole (E)-(RS)(2,4-dichlorophenyl)-4,4-dimethyl(1H-= 1,2,4-triazolyl)pentenol Diniconazole-M (E)-(R)(2,4-dichlorophenyl)-4,4-dimethyl(1H-= 1,2,4-triazolyl)pentenol Dinitramine N1,N1-diethyl-2,6-dinitrotrifluoromethyl-m-phenyl= enediamine Dinobuton 2-sec-butyl-4,6-dinitrophenyl isopropyl carbonate 

 Laws of Malaysia ACT 149 98 Common names Chemical names Dinocap 2,6-dinitrooctylphenyl crotonates and 2,4-dinitro= octylphenyl crotonates in which `octyl’ is a mixture of1-= methylheptyl,1-ethylhexyl and 1-propylpentyl groups Dinocton A mixture of— (a) 2,4-dinitro(1-propypentyl)phenyl methyl carbonate; (b) 2-(1-ethylhexy)-4,6-dinitrophenyl methyl carbonate; (c) 2,6-dinitro(1-propylpentyl)phenyl methyl carbonate; and (d) 4-(1-ethylhexyl)-2,6-dinitrophenyl methyl carbonate Dinofenate 2-sec-butyl-4,6-dinitrophenyl 2,4-dinitrophenyl carbonate Dinopenton Isopropyl 2-(1-methylbutyl)-4,6-dinitrophenyl carbonate Dinoprop 4,6-dinitro-o-cymenol Dinosam (RS)1(1-methylbutyl)-4,6-dinitrophenol Dinoseb (including its salts and esters) 2-sec-butyl-4,6-dinitrophenol Dinosulfon S-methyl O(1-methylheptyl)-4,6-dinitrophenyl thiocarbonate Dinotefuran (EZ)-(RS)methylnitro(tetrahydrofuryl= methyl)guanidine Dinoterb (including its salts and esters) 2-tert-butyl-4,6-dinitrophenol Dinoterbon 2-tert-butyl-4,6-dinitrophenyl ethyl carbonate Diofenolan Amixture of (2RS,4SR)(2-ethyl-1,3-dioxolanyl= methoxy)phenyl phenyl ether (50%-80%) and (2RS,4RS)(2-ethyl-1,3-dioxolanylmethoxy) phenyl phenyl ether (50%-20%) Dioxabenzofos (RS)methoxy-4H-benzo-1,3,2λ5-benzodioxa= phosphininesulfide 

Pesticides 99 Common names Chemical names Dioxacarb 2-(1,3-dioxolanyl)phenyl methylcarbamate Dioxathion S,S’-(1dioxane-2,3-diyl) O,O,O’,O’-tetraethyl= bis(phosphorodithioate) Diphacinone 2-(diphenylacetyl)indan-1,3-dione Diphenamid N,N-dimethyldiphenylacetamide Diphenoxylate (including its salts) Ethyl 1-(3-cyano-3,3-diphenylpropyl)phenyl= piperidinecarboxylate Diphenyl sulfone Diphenyl sulfone Diphenylamine Diphenylamine Dipropetryn 6-ethylthio-N2,N4-di-isopropyl-1,3,5-triazine-2,4-diamine Dipymetitrone 2,6-dimethyl-1H,5H-[1,4]dithiino[2,3-c:5,6-c′]= dipyrrole-1,3,5,7(2H,6H)-tetrone Dipyrithione Dipyridyl disulfide 1,1’-dioxide Diquat (including its salts) 9,10-dihydro-8ª,10ª-diazoniaphenanthrene; 6,7-dihydrodipyrido[1,2-a:2′,1′-c]pyrazine-5,8-diium;or 1,1′-ethylene-2,2′-bipyridyldiylium Disul 2-(2dichlorophenoxy)ethyl hydrogen sulphate Disulfoton O,O-diethyl Sethylthioethyl phosphorodithioate Ditalimfos O,O-diethyl phthalimidophosphonothioate Dithianon 5,10-dihydro-5,10-dioxanaphtho[2,3-b]-1,4-dithiine-= 2,3-dicarbonitrile Dithicrofos S-(6-chloro-3,4-dihydro-2Hbenzothi-inyl) O,O-= diethylphosphorodithioate 

 Laws of Malaysia ACT 149 100 Common names Chemical names Dithiopyr S,S’-dimethyl 2-difluoromethylisobutyltrifluoro= methylpyridine-3,5-dicarbothioate Diuron 3-(3,4-dichlorophenyl)-1,1-dimethylurea DMPA 0-2,4-dichlorophenyl O-methyl isopropyl phosphoro= amidothioate DNOC (including its salts) 4,6-dinitro-o-cresol Dodemorph (including its esters) 4-cyclododecyl-2,6-dimethylmorpholine Dodicin N-[2-(2-dodecylaminoethylamino)ethyl]glycine Dodine 1-dodecylguanidinium acetate Dofenapyn 4-(pentynyloxy)phenyl phenyl ether Drazoxolon 4-(2-chlorophenylhydrazono)methylisoxazol-5(4H)-= one EBP S-benzyl O,O-diethyl phosphorothioate Edifenphos O-ethyl S,S׳-diphenyl phosphorodithioate Eglinazine (including its esters) N-(4-chloroethylamino-1,3,5-triazinyl)glycine Emamectin benzoate A mixture containing ≥90% of (10E,14E,16E,22Z)-(1R,= 4S,5’S,6S,6’R,8R,12S,13S,20R,21R,24S)-6’-[(S)-sec-= butyl]-21,24-dihydroxy-5’,11,13,22-tetramethyloxo-= 3,7,19-trioxatetracyclo[15.6.1.14.8.020.24]pentacosa-= 10,14,16,22-tetraenespiro-2’-(5’,6’-dihydro-2’H-= pyran)yl 2,6-dideoxyO-methylO-(2,4,6-= trideoxyO-methylmethylamino-α-L-lyxo-hexo= pyranosyl)- α-L-arabino-hexopyranoside and ≤10% of (10E,14E,16E,22Z)-(1R,4S, 5’S,6S,6’R,8R,12S,13S,= 20R,21R,24S )-21, 24-dihydroxy-6’-isopropyl-= 5’,11,13,22-tetramethyloxo-3,7,19-trioxatetra= cyclo[15.6.1.14.8.020.24]pentacosa-10,14,16,22-tetraene= spiro-2’-(5’,6’-dihydro-2’H-pyran)yl 2,6-= dideoxyO-methylO-(2,4,6-trideoxyO-methyl= 

Pesticides 101 Common names Chemical names methylamino-α-L-lyxo-hexopyranosyl)-α-L-= arabino-hexopyranoside EMPC 4-ethylthiophenyl methylcarbamate Empenthrin [(EZ)-(1R) isomers] (E)-(RS)ethynylmethylpentenyl (1RS,3RS;= 1R,3SR)-2,2-dimethyl(2-methylpropenyl)cyclo= propanecarboxylate Endosulfan (1,4,5,6,7,7-hexachloro-8,9,10-trinorbornen-2,3-= ylenebismethylene) sulfite Endothal (including its salts) 7-oxabicyclo[2.2.1]heptane-2,3-dicarboxylic acid Endothion Smethoxyoxo-4H-pyranylmethyl O,O-= dimethylphosphorothioate Endrin (1R,4S,4aS,5S,6S,7R,8R,8aR)-1,2,3,4,10,10-hexa= chloro-1,4,4a,5,6,8,8a-octahydro-6,7-epoxy-1,4:5,8-= dimethanonaphthalene Enoxastrobin Methyl (2E){2-[({(E)-[(2E)(4-chlorophenyl)= methylpropenylidene]amino}oxy)methyl]phenyl}= methoxyacrylate EPBP O-2,4-dichlorophenyl O-ethyl phenylphosphonothioate EPN O-ethyl Onitrophenyl phenylphosphonothioate Epofenonane 6,7-epoxyethylmethylnonyl 4-ethylphenyl ether Epoxiconazole (2RS,3SR)[3-(2-chlorophenyl)-2,3-epoxy(4-= fluorophenyl)propyl]-1H-1,2,4-triazole Eprinomectin Extended von Baeyer nomenclature: mixture of (10E,14E,16E)-= (1R,4S,5′S,6S,6′R,8R,12S,13S,20R,21R,24S)-= 6′-[(S)-sec-butyl]-21,24-dihydroxy-5′,11,13,22-= tetramethyloxo-(3,7,19-trioxatetracyclo= [15.6.1.14,8.020,24]pentacosa-10,14,16,22-= tetraene)spiro-2′-(5′,6′-dihydro-2′H-pyran)-= 12-yl 4-O-(4-acetamido-2,4,6-trideoxyO-= methyl-α-L-lyxo-hexopyranosyl)-2,6-dideoxy= 

 Laws of Malaysia ACT 149 102 Common names Chemical names O-methyl-α-L-arabino-hexopyranoside (major component) and (10E,14E,16E)-(1R,4S,5′S,6S,6′R,8R,12S,13S,= 20R,21R,24S)-21,24-dihydroxy-6′-isopropyl-= 5′,11,13,22-tetramethyloxo-(3,7,19-= trioxatetracyclo[15.6.1.14,8.020,24]pentacosa-= 10,14,16,22-tetraene)spiro-2′-(5′,6′-dihydro-= 2′H-pyran)yl 4-O-(4-acetamido-2,4,6-= trideoxyO-methyl-α-L-lyxo-hexopyranosyl)-= 2,6-dideoxyO-methyl-α-L-arabino-= hexopyranoside (minor component) Epronaz N-ethyl-N-propylpropylsulphony-1H-1,2,4-triazole-= 1-carboxamide Epsilon-metofluthrin [2,3,5,6-tetrafluoro(methoxymethyl)phenyl]= methyl (1R,3R)-2,2-dimethyl[(1Z)-propen= yl]cyclopropanecarboxylate Epsilon-momfluorothrin [2,3,5,6-tetrafluoro(methoxymethyl)phenyl]= methyl (1R,3R)[(1Z)cyanopropenyl]-= 2,2-dimethylcyclopropanecarboxylate EPTC S-ethyl dipropylthiocarbamate Erbon 2-(2-4,5-trichlorophenoxy)ethyl 2,2-dichloropropionate Ergocalciferol (5Z,7E,22E)-(3S)-9,10-secoergosta-5,7-10(19),22-= tetraenol Esbiothrin (RS)allylmethyloxocyclopentenyl (1R,3R)-= 2,2-dimethyl(2-methylpropenyl)cyclopropane= carboxylate 2-cyclopentenone; or cyclopropanecarboxylic acid, 2,2-dimethyl(2-= methylpropenyl)methyloxo= (2-propenyl)cyclopentenyl ester Esfenvalerate (S)-α-cyanophenoxybenzyl (S)(4-chlorophenyl)-= 3-methylbutyrate Esprocarb S-benzyl 1,2-dimethylpropyl(ethyl)thiocarbamate Etacelasil 2-chloroethyltris(2-methoxyethoxy)silane 

Pesticides 103 Common names Chemical names Etaconazole (±)[2-(2,4-dichlorophenyl)ethyl-1,3-dioxolan= ylmethyl]-1H-1,2,4-triazole Etem 5,6-dihydro-(1H,3H)-imidazo[2,1-c]-1,2,4-dithiazole-= 3-thione Ethaboxam (RS)-N-(α-cyanothenyl)ethyl(ethylamino)-1,3-= thiazolecarboxamide Ethalfluralin N-ethyl-α,α,α-trifluoro-N-(2-methylallyl)-2,6-dinitro-= p-toluidine Ethametsulfuron (including its salts and esters) 2-[(4-ethoxymethylamino-1,3,5-triazinyl) carba= moylsulfamoyl]benzoic acid Ethidimuron 1-(5-ethylsulfonyl-1,3,4-thiadiazolyl)1,3-dimethylurea Ethiofencarb α-ethylthio-o-tolyl-methylcarbamate Ethiolate S-ethyl diethylthiocarbamate Ethion O,O,O',O'-tetraethyl S,S'-methylene bis(phosphoro= dithioate) Ethiprole 5-amino(2,6-dichloro-α,α,α-trifluoro-p-tolyl)= ethylsulfinylpyrazolecarbonitrile Ethirimol 5-butylethylaminomethylpyrimidinol Ethoate-methyl S-ethylcarbamoylmethyl O,O-dimethyl phosphoro= dithioate Ethofenprox or etofenprox 2-(4-ethoxyphenyl)methylpropyl 3-phenoxybenzyl= ether Ethofumesate (±)ethoxy-2,3-dihydro-3,3-dimethylbenzofuran= ylmethanesulfonate Ethoprophos O-ethyl S,S-dipropyl phosphorodithioate Ethoxyquin 1,2-dihydro-2,2,4-trimethylquinolinyl ethyl ether Ethoxysulfuron 1-(4,6-dimethoxypyrimidinyl)(2-ethoxyphenoxy= sulfonyl)urea 

 Laws of Malaysia ACT 149 104 Common names Chemical names Etinofen α-ethoxy-4,6-dinitro-o-cresol Etnipromid (RS)[5-(2,4-dichlorophenoxy)nitrophenoxy]-N-= ethylpropionamide Etobenzanid 2',3'-dichloroethoxymethoxybenzanilide Etoxazole (RS)tert-butyl[2-(2,6-difluorophenyl)-4,5-= dihydro-1,3-oxazolyl]phenetole Etofenprox 2-(4-ethoxyphenyl)methylpropyl 3-phenoxybenzyl= ether Etridiazole Ethyl 3-trichloromethyl-1,2,4-thiadiazolyl ether Etrimfos Oethoxyethylpyrimidinyl O,O-dimethyl phosphorothioate EXD O,O-diethyl dithiobis(thioformate) Famoxadone 3-anilinomethyl(4-phenoxyphenyl)-1,3-oxazolidine-= 2,4-dione Famphur O,4-dimethylsulfamoylphenyl O,O-dimethyl= phosphorothioate d-fanshiluquebingjuzhi (1S)methyloxo(propynyl)= cyclopentenyl (1Ξ,3Ξ)(2,2-= dichloroethenyl)-2,2-dimethylcyclopropane-= 1-carboxylate Fenamidone (S)anilinomethylmethylthiophenyl= imidazolinone Fenaminosulf Sodium 4-dimethylaminobenzenediaosulfonate Fenaminstrobin (2E)(2-{(E)-[(2E)(2,6-dichlorophenyl)= methylpropenylidene]aminooxymethyl}phenyl)= (methoxyimino)-N-methylacetamide Fenamiphos Ethyl 4-methylthio-m-tolyl isopropylphosphoramidate Fenapanil (RS)(imidazolylmethyl)phenylhexanenitrile 

Pesticides 105 Common names Chemical names Fenarimol (RS)-2,4'-dichloro--(pyrimidinyl)benzhydryl alcohol Fenasulam Methyl 4-[2-(4-chloro-o-tolyloxy)acetamido] phenyl= sulfonylcarbamate Fenazaflor Phenyl 5,6-dichlorotrifluoromethylbenzimidazole= carboxylate Fenazaquin 4-tert-butylphenethyl quinazolinyl ether Fenbuconazole (RS)(4-chlorophenyl)phenyl(1H-1,2,4-triazol= ylmethyl)butyronitrile Fenbutatin oxide Bis[tris(2-methylphenylpropyl)tin] oxide Fenchlorazole(including esters) 1-(2,4-dichlorophenyl)trichloromethyl-1H-1,2,4-= triazolecarboxylic acid Fenchlorphos O,O-dimethyl O-2,4,5-trichlorophenyl phosphorothioate Fenethacarb 3,5-diethylphenyl methylcarbamate Fenfluthrin 2,3,4,5,6-pentafluorobenzyl(1R)-trans(2,2-dichloro= vinyl)-2,2-dimethylcyclopropanecarboxylate Fenfuram 2-methylfuranilide Fenhexamid 2′,3′-dichloro-4′-hydroxymethylcyclohexane carbox= anilide Fenitropan (1RS,2RS)nitrophenyltrimethylene di(acetate) Fenjuntong 1-(2-hydroxyphenyl)butanone Fenitrothion O,O-dimethyl Onitro-m-tolyl phosphorothioate Fenobucarb (BPMC) 2-sec-butylphenyl methylcarbamate Fenoprop (including its esters and salts) (±)(2,4,5-trichlorophenoxy)propionic acid Fenothiocarb Sphenoxybutyl dimethylthiocarbamate 

 Laws of Malaysia ACT 149 106 Common names Chemical names Fenoxacrim 3',4'-dichloro-1,2,3,4-tetrahydrohydroxy-1,3-= dimethyl-2,4-dioxopyrimidinecarboxanilide Fenoxanil A mixture of 85% (R)-N-[(RS)cyano-1,2-dimethyl= propyl](2,4-dichlorophenoxy)propionamide and 15% (S)- N-[(RS)cyano-1,2-dimethylpropyl]= (2,4- dichlorophenoxy)propionamide Fenoxaprop (including esters) (±)[4-(6-chlorobenzoxazolyloxy)phenoxy]= propionic acid Fenoxaprop-P (including esters) (R)[4-(6-chloro-1,3-benzoxazolyloxy)phenoxy]= propionic acid Fenoxasulfone 2,5-dichloroethoxybenzyl 4,5-dihydro-5,5-dimethyl-= 1,2-oxazolyl sulfone; or 3-[(2,5-dichoroethoxybenzyl)sulfonyl]-4,5-dihydro-= 5,5-dimethyl-1,2-oxazole Fenoxycarb Ethyl 2-(4-phenoxyphenoxy)ethylcarbamate Fenpiclonil 4-(2,3-dichlorophenyl)pyrrolecarbonitrile Fenpicoxamid (3S,6S,7R,8R)benzyl(4-methoxy{[(2-= methylpropanoyl)oxy]methoxy}pyridine= carboxamido)methyl-4,9-dioxo-1,5-= dioxonanyl 2-methylpropanoate Fenpirithrin (RS)-cyano(6-phenoxypyridyl)methyl (1RS,3RS;= 1RS,3SR)(2,2- dichlorovinyl)-2,2-dimethylcyclo= propanecarboxylate Fenpropathrin (RS)-α-cyanophenoxybenzyl 2,2,3,3-tetramethyl= cyclopropanecarboxylate Fenpropidin (RS)[3-(4-tert-butylphenyl)methylpropyl]piperidine Fenpropimorph (±)-cis[3-(4-tert-butylphenyl)methylpropyl]-2,6-= dimethylmorpholine Fenpyrazamine S-allyl 5-amino-2,3-dihydroisopropyloxo(o-= tolyl)pyrazolecarbothioate 

Pesticides 107 Common names Chemical names Fenpyroximate Tert-butyl (E)--(1,3-dimethylphenoxypyrazol= ylmethyleneamino-oxy)-p-toluate Fenquinotrione 2-[8-chloro-3,4-dihydro(4-methoxyphenyl)oxo= quinoxalinylcarbonyl]cyclohexane-1,3-dione Fenridazone (including its salts and esters) 1-(4-chlorophenyl)methyloxo-1,4-dihydro= pyridazinecarboxylic acid Fenson 4-chlorophenyl benzensulfonate Fensulfothion O,O-diethyl Omethysulfinylphenyl phosphorothioate Fenteracol 2-(2,4,5-trichlorophenoxy)ethanol Fenthiaprop (±)[4-(6-chlorobenzothiazolyloxy)phenoxy]= propionic acid Fenthion O,O-dimethyl Omethylthio-m-tolyl phosphorothioate Fentin Triphenyltin Fentin acetate Triphenyltin(IV) acetate Fentin hydroxide Triphenyltin(IV) hydroxide Fentrazamide 4-(2-chlorophenyl)-N-cyclohexyl-N-ethyl-4,5-dihydro-= 5-oxo-1H-tetrazolecarboxamide Fentrifanil N-(6-chloro-,,-trifluoro-m-tolyl)α-α-α trifluoro-= 4,6-dinitro-o-toluidine Fenuron 1,1-dimethylphenylurea Fenvalerate (RS)--cyanophenoxybenzyl (RS)(4-chloro= phenyl)methylbutyrate Ferbam Iron(III) dimethyldithiocarbamate; iron(3+) dimethyldithiocarbamate; or 

 Laws of Malaysia ACT 149 108 Common names Chemical names ferric dimethyldithiocarbamate Ferimzone (Z)-2'-methylacetophenone 4,6-dimethylpyrimidin= ylhydrazone Ferrous sulfate Iron(II) sulfate Fipronil 5-amino(2,6-dichloro-α,α,α-trifluoro-p-tolyl)= [(trifluoromethyl)sulfinyl]pyrazolecarbonitrile Flampro-M (including esters) N-benzoyl-N-(3-chlorofluorophenyl)-D-alanine Flamprop (including esters) N-benzoyl-N-(3-chlorofluorophenyl)-DL-alanine Flazasulfuron 1-(4,6-dimethoxypyrimidinyl)(3-trifluoromethyl-= 2-pyridylsulfonyl)urea Flocoumafen 4-hydroxy[1,2,3,4-tetrahydro[4-(4-trifluoro= methylbenzyloxy)phenyl]naphthyl]-coumarin (mixture of cis to trans isomers in ratio the range 60:40 to 40:60) Flometoquin 2-ethyl-3,7-dimethyl[4-(trifluoromethoxy)phenoxy]-= 4-quinolyl methyl carbonate Flonicamid N-cyanomethyl(trifluoromethyl)nicotinamide Florasulam 2′,6′,8-trifluoromethoxy[1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]= pyrimidinesulfonanilide Florpyrauxifen (including its salts and esters) Florypicoxamid 4-aminochloro(4-chlorofluoro= methoxyphenyl)fluoropyridinecarboxylic acid (1S)-2,2-bis(4-fluorophenyl)methylethyl N-[(3-acetoxymethoxypyridil)carbonyl]-L-alaninate Fluacrypyrim Methyl (E){α-[2-isopropoxy(trifluoromethyl)= pyrimidinyloxy]-o-tolyl}methoxyacrylate Fluazaindolizine 8-chloro-N-(2-chloromethoxybenzenesulfonyl)= (trifluoromethyl)imidazo[1,2-a]pyridine= carboxamide 

Pesticides 109 Common names Chemical names Fluazifop (including esters) (RS)[4-(5-trifluoromethylpyridyloxy)phenoxy]= propionic acid Fluazifop-P (including esters) (R)[4-(5-trifluoromethylpyridyloxy)phenoxy]= propionic acid Fluazinam 3-chloro-N-(3-chlorotrifluoromethylpyridyl)= α-α-α trifluoro 2,6-dinitro-p-toluidine Fluazolate Isopropyl 5-[4-bromomethyl(trifluoromethyl)= pyrazolyl]chlorofluorobenzoate Fluazuron 1-[4-chloro(3-chlorotrifluoromethyl= pyridyloxy)phenyl](2,6-difluorobenzoyl)urea Flubendiamide 3-iodo-N’-(2-mesyl-1,1-dimethylethyl)-N-{4-[1,2,2,2-= terrafluoro(trifluomethyl)ethyl]-o-tolyl}phthalamide Flubenzimine (2Z,4E,5Z)-N2,3-diphenyl-N4,N5-bis(trifluoromethyl)-= 1,3-thiazolidine-2,4,5-triylidenetriamine Flucarbazone (including its salts) 4,5-dihydromethoxymethyloxo-N-[2-(triflu= oromethoxy)phenylsulfonyl]-1H-1,2,4-triazole= carboxamide Flucetosulfuron 1-{3-[4,6-dimethoxypyrimidinylcarbamoyl)= sulfamoyl]pyridyl}fluoropropylmethoxyacetate Fluchloralin N-(2-chloroethyl)-α,α,α -trifluoro-2,6-dinitro-N-propyl= -p-toluidine; or N-(2-chloroethyl)-2,6-dinitro-N-propyl(trifluoro= methyl)anilide Flucofuron 1,3-bis(4-chloroα-α-α-trifluoro-m-tolyl) Flucycloxuron 1-{α-[(EZ)chloro-α-cyclopropylbenzylidene= aminooxy]-p-tolyl}(2,6-difluorobenzoyl)urea(ratio 50– 80% (E)- and 50–20% (Z)- isomers) Flucythrinate (RS)-α-cyanophenoxybenzyl (S)(4-difluoro me= thoxyphenyl)methylbutyrate 

 Laws of Malaysia ACT 149 110 Common names Chemical names Fludioxonil 4-(2,2-difluoro-1,3-benzodioxolyl)pyrrolecarbo= nitrile Fluenetil 2-fluoroethyl biphenylylacetate Fluensulfone 5-chloro-1,3-thiazolyl 3,4,4-trifluorobutenyl= sulfone; or 5-chloro(3,4,4-trifluorobutenylsulfonyl)-1,3-= thiazole Flufenacet 4’-fluoro-N-isopropyl(5-trifluoromethyl-1,3,4-= thiadiazolyloxy)acetanilide Flufenerim {5-chloro[(RS)fluoroethyl]pyrimidinyl}[4-= (trifluoromethoxy)phenethyl]amine Flufenican 2-(α,α,α-trifluoro-m-tolyloxy)nicotinanilide Flufenoxuron 1-[4-(2-chloro-α,α,α-trifluoro-p-tolyloxy)fluoro= phenyl]2,6-difluorobenzoyl)urea Flufenoxystrobin Methyl (2E){2-[(2-chloro-α,α,α-trifluoro-p-tolyloxy)= methyl]phenyl}methoxyacrylate Flufenprox 3-(4-chlorophenoxy)benzyl (RS)(4-ethoxyphenyl)-= 3,3,3-trifluoropropyl ether Flufenpyr (including its salts and esters) 2-chloro[1,6-dihydromethyloxo= (trifluoromethyl)pyridazinyl]fluorophenoxyacetic acid Flufiprole 1-(2,6-dichloro-α,α,α-trifluoro-p-tolyl)(2-methylallyl= amino)(trifluoromethylsulfinyl)pyrazolecarbonitrile Fluhexafon (2RS)-{[1(4)-EZ](methoxyimino)cyclohexyl}(3,3,3-= trifluoropropylsulfonyl)acetonitrile Fluindapyr Rac(difluoromethyl)-N-[(3R)fluoro-1,1,3-= trimethyl-2,3-dihydro-1H-indenyl]methyl-= 1H-pyrazolecarboxamide 

Pesticides 111 Common names Chemical names Flumethrin α-cyanofluorophenoxybenzyl 3-(β,4-dichloro= styryl)-2,2-dimethylcyclopropanecarboxylate Flumetralin N-(2-chlorofluorobenzyl)-N-ethyl-α,α,α-trifluoro= -2,6-dinitro-p-toluidine Flumetsulam 2',6'-difluoromethyl[1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-a]pyrimidine= sulfonanilide Flumezin 2-methyl(,,-trifluoro-m-tolyl)-1,2,4-oxadazin= ane-3,5-dione Flumiclorac (including its salts) [2-chloro(cyclohexene-1,2-dicarboximido)= fluorophenoxy]acetic acid Flumioxazin N-(7-fluoro-3,4-dihydrooxopropynyl-2H-1,4-= benzoxazinyl)cyclohexene-1,2-dicarboxamide Flumipropyn (±)-N-[4-chlorofluoro(1-methylpropynyl)= oxyphenyl]cyclohexene-1,2-dicarboximide Flumorph (EZ)[3-(3,4-dimethoxyphenyl)(4-fluorophenyl)= acryloyl]morpholine; or (EZ)(3,4-dimethoxyphenyl)(4-fluorophenyl)= morpholinopropenone(50% (E)-isomer, 50% (Z)-isomer) Fluometuron 1,1-dimethyl(,,-trifluoro-m-tolyl)urea Fluopicolide 2,6-dichloro-N-[3-chloro(trifluoromethyl)pyridyl= methyl]benzamide Fluopyram N-{2-[3-chloro(trifluoromethyl)pyridyl]ethyl}-= α,α,α-trifluoro-o-toluamide Fluorbenside 4-chlorobenzyl 4-fluorophenyl sulfide Fluoroacetamide 2-fluoroacetamide Fluorodifen 4-nitrophenyl ,,-trifluoronitro-p-tolyl ether 

 Laws of Malaysia ACT 149 112 Common names Chemical names Fluoroglycofen (including its esters) O-[5-(2-chloro-,,-trifluoro-p-tolyloxy)nitro= benzoyl] glycolic acid Fluoroimide 2,3-dichloro-Nfluorophenyl-maleimide Fluoromidine 6-chlorotrifluoromethyl-3H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyridine Fluoronitrofen 2,4-dichlorofluorophenyl 4-nitrophenyl ether Fluothiuron 3-[3-chloro(chlorodifluoromethylthio)phenyl]-1,1-= dimethylurea Fluotrimazole Fluoxapiprolin 1-(3-trifluoromethyltrityl)-1H-1,2,4-triazole 2-{(5RS)[2-(1-{[3,5-bis(difluoromethyl)-1H-pyrazol yl]acetyl}piperidyl)thiazolyl]-4,5-methanesulfonate Fluoxastrobin (E)-{2-[6-(2-chlorophenoxy)fluoropyrimidin= yloxy]phenyl}(5,6-dihydro-1,4,2-dioxazinyl)= methanone O-methyloxime Flupoxam 1-[4-chloro(2,2,3,3,3-pentafluoropropoxymethyl)= phenyl]phenyl-1H-1,2,4-triazolecarboxamide Flupropacil Isopropyl 2-chloro(1,2,3,6-tetrahydromethyl-2,6-= dioxotrifluoromethylpyrimidinyl)benzoate Flupropadine (including its salts) 4-tert-butyl[3-(,,,',','-hexafluoro-3,5-xylyl)= propynyl]piperidine Flupropanate (including its salts) 2,2,3,3-tetrafluoropropionic acid Flupyradifurone 4-[(6-chloropyridylmethyl)(2,2-difluoroethyl)amino]= furan-2(5H)-one Flupyrimin N-[(2E)[(6-chloropyridinyl)methyl]= pyridin-2(1H)-ylidene]-2,2,2-trifluoroacetamide Flupyrsulfuron (including its salts and esters) 2-[(4,6-dimethoxypyrimidinylcarbamoyl)sulfamoyl]= (trifluoromethyl)nicotinic acid 

Pesticides 113 Common names Chemical names Fluquinconazole 3-(2,4-dichlorophenyl)fluoro(1H-1,2,4-triazol= yl)quinazolin-4(3H)-one Fluralaner 4-[(5RS)(3,5-dichlorophenyl)-4,5-dihydro= trifluoromethyl-1,2-oxazolyl]-N-[2-oxo(2,2,2-= trifluoroethylamino)ethyl]-o-toluamide Flurazole Benzyl 2-chlorotrifluoromethyl-1,3-thiazole= carboxylate Flurenol (including its esters) 9-hydroxyfluorenecarboxylic acid Fluridone 1-methylphenyl(α-α-α-trifluoro-m-tolyl)= pyridine Flurochloridone (3RS,4RS;3RS,4SR)chlorochloromethyl= (,,-trifluoro-m-tolyl)pyrrolidinone (in ratio 3:1) Fluroxypyr (including esters) 4-amino-3,5-dichlorofluoropyridyloxyacetic acid Flurprimidol (RS)methylpyrimidinyl(4-trifluoromethoxy= phenyl)propanol Flurtamone (RS)methylaminophenyl(,,-trifluoro-m-= tolyl)furan-3(2H)-one Flusilazole Bis(4-fluorophenyl)(methyl)(1H-1,2,4-triazolyl= methyl)silane Flusulfamide 2',4-dichloro-,,-trifluoro-4'-nitro-m-toluene= sulfonanilide Fluthiacet (including its salts and esters) {2-chlorofluoro[(EZ)-5,6,7,8-tetrahydrooxo-= 1H,3H-[1,3,4]thiadiazolo[3,4-a]pyridazinylidene= amino]phenylthio}acetic acid Flutianil (Z)-[3-(2-methoxyphenyl)-1,3-thiazolidinylidene]= (α,α,α,4-tetrafluoro-m-tolylthio)acetonitrile Flutolanil α,α,α-trifluoro-3'-isopropoxy-o-toluanilide Flutriafol (RS)-2,4'-difluoro-α-(1H-1,2,4-triazolylmethyl)= benzhydryl alcohol 

 Laws of Malaysia ACT 149 114 Common names Chemical names Fluvalinate (RS)-α-cyanophenoxybenzyl N-(2-chloro-,,-= trifluoro-p-tolyl)-DL-valinate Fluxametamide Rac[(5R)(3,5-dichlorophenyl)= (trifluoromethyl)-4,5-dihydro-1,2-oxazolyl]-= N-[(Ξ)-(methoxyimino)methyl]ethylbenzamide Fluxapyroxad 3-(difluoromethyl)methyl-N-(3′,4′,5′-trifluorobiphe= nyl yl)pyrazolecarboxamide Folpet N-(trichloromethylthio)phthalimide Fomesafen (including its salts) 5-(2-chloro-α,α,α-trifluoro-p-tolyloxy)-N-methyl= sulfonylnitrobenzamide Fonofos O-ethyl S-phenyl (RS)-ethylphosphonodithioate Foramsulfuron 1-(4,6-dimethoxypyrimidinyl)[2-(dimethyl= carbamoyl)formamidophenylsulfonyl]urea Formetanate (including its salts) 3-dimethylaminomethyleneaminophenyl= methylcarbamate Formothion S-[formyl(methyl)carbamoylmethyl]O,O-dimethyl= phosphorodithioate Formparanate 4-[(EZ)-dimethylaminomethyleneamino]-m-tolyl= methylcarbamate Fosamine (including its salts) Ethyl hydrogen carbamoylphosphonate Fosetyl (including its salts) Ethyl hydrogen phosphonate Fosmethilan S-[N-(2-chlorophenyl)butyramidomethyl]O,O-dimethyl= phosphorodithioate Fospirate Dimethyl 3,5,6-trichloropyridyl phosphate Fosthiazate (RS)-S-sec-butyl O-ethyl 2-oxo-1,3-thiazolidin= ylphosphonothioate 

Pesticides 115 Common names Chemical names Fosthietan Diethyl 1,3-dithietanylidenephosphoramidate Fuberidazole 2-(2-furyl)benzimidazole Fucaojing 6-[(difluoromethyl)sulfanyl]-N2,N4-di(propan-= 2-yl)-1,3,5-triazine-2,4-diamine Fucaomi Methyl ({[(Ξ){5-[2-chloro(trifluoromethyl)= phenoxy]nitrophenyl}methoxyethylidene]= amino}oxy)acetate Funaihecaoling Methyl (2R)({7-[2-chloro(trifluoromethyl)= phenoxy]naphthalenyl}oxy)propanoate Furalaxyl Methyl N-(2-furoyl)-N-(2,6-xylyl)-DL-alaninate Furalaxyl-M Methyl N(2,6-furoyl)-N-(2,6-xylyl)-D-alaninate Furametpyr (RS)chloro-N-(1,3-dihydro-1,1,3-trimethyliso= benzofuranyl)-1,3-dimethylpyrazolecarboxamide Furathiocarb Butyl 2,3-dihydro-2,2-dimethylbenzofuranyl N,N'-= dimethyl-N,N'-thiodicarbamate Furcarbanil 2,5-dimethylfuranilide Furconazole (2RS,5RS;2RS,5SR)(2,4-dichlorophenyl)tetrahydro= (1H,1,2,4-triazolylmethyl)furyl 2,2,2- trifluoro= ethyl ether Furconazole-cis (2RS,5RS)(2,4-dichlorophenyl)tetrahydro(1H,1,= 2,4-triazolylmethyl)furyl 2,2,2-trifluoroethyl ether Furethrin (RS)furfurylmethyloxocyclopentenyl (1RS,3RS;1RS,3SR)-2,2-dimethyl(2-methylprop= enyl)cyclopropanecarboxylate; (RS)furfurylmethyloxocyclopentenyl (1RS)-= cis-trans-2,2-dimethyl(2-methylprop= enyl)cyclopropanecarboxylate; or 

 Laws of Malaysia ACT 149 116 Common names Chemical names 3-furfurylmethyloxocyclopentenyl(±)-cis-= trans-chrysanthemate Furmecyclox Methyl N-cyclohexyl-2,5-dimethylfurancarbo= hydroxamate Furophanate Methyl 4-(2-furfurylideneaminophenyl)= thioallophanate Furyloxyfen (±)(2-chloro-α,α,α-trifluoro-p-tolyloxy)= nitrophenyl tetrahydrofuryl ether Gamma-cyhalothrin (S)-α-cyanophenoxybenzyl (1R,3R)[(Z)= chloro-3,3,3-trifluoropropenyl]-2,2-dimethyl= cyclopropanecarboxylate; or (S)-α-cyanophenoxybenzyl (1R)-cis[(Z)= chloro-3,3,3-trifluoropropenyl]-2,2-dimethyl= cyclopropanecarboxylate Gamma-HCH - see also lindane Gamma isomer of 1,2,3,4,5,6-hexachlorocyclohexane Gliocladium spp. - Gliocladium catenulatum - Glufosinate (including its salts) DL-homoalaninyl(methyl)phosphinic acid; or 4-[hydroxy(methyl)phosphinoyl]-DL-homoalanine Glufosinate-P (including its salts) (2S)amino[hydroxy(methyl)phosphinoyl]butyric acid Glyodin 2-heptadecylimidazoline acetate Glyphosate (including its salts) N-(phosphonomethyl)glycine 

Pesticides 117 Common names Chemical names Guanoctin A mixture of products resulting from the amidination of technical iminodi (octamethylene) diamine, containing numerous guanidines and polyamines Guazatine (including its esters) A mixture of the reaction products from polyamines, comprising mainly octamethylenediamine, iminodi= (octamethylene)diamine and octamethylenebis(imino= -octamethylene)diamine and carbamonitrile Halacrinate 7-bromochloroquinolyl acrylate Halauxifen 4-aminochloro(4-chlorofluoromethoxy= phenyl)pyridinecarboxylic acid; or 4-aminochloro(4-chlorofluoromethoxy= phenyl)picolinic acid Halfenprox 2-(4-bromodifluoromethoxyphenyl)methylpropyl= 3-phenoxybenzyl ether Halofenozide N-tert-butyl-N′-(4-chlorobenzoyl)benzohydrazide Halosafen 5-(2-chloro-α,α,α,6-tetrafluoro-p-tolyloxy)-N-= ethylsulfonylnitrobenzamide Halosulfuron (including esters) 3-chloro(4,6-dimethoxypyrimidinylcarbamoyl= sulfamoyl)methylpyrazolecarboxylic acid Haloxydine 3,5-dichloro-2,6-difluoropyridinol Haloxyfop (including its salts and esters) (RS){4-[3-chloro(trifluoromethyl)pyridyloxy]= phenoxy}propionic acid Haloxyfop-P (R)-isomer of (RS){4-[3-chlorotrifluoromethyl)= pyridyloxy]phenoxy}propionic acid HCH - see also BHC 1,2,3,4,5,6-hexachlorocyclohexane Helicoverpa zea NPV - 

 Laws of Malaysia ACT 149 118 Common names Chemical names Helicoverpa armigera NPV - Heptachlor 1,4,5,6,7,8,8-heptachloro-3a,4,7,7a-tetrahydro-4,7-= methanoindene Heptafluthrin 2,3,5,6-tetrafluoro(methoxymethyl)benzyl (1RS,= 3RS;1RS,3SR)-2,2-dimethyl[(1Z)-3,3,3-= trifluoropropenyl]cyclopropanecarboxylate Heptenophos 7-chlorobicyclo[3.2.0]hepta-2,6-dienyl dimethyl= phosphate Herbimycin (4E,6Z,8S,9S,10E,12S,13R,14S,16S,17R)-8,13,14,17-= tetramethoxy-4,10,12,16-tetramethyl-3,20,22-trioxo= azabicyclo[16.3.1]docosa-1(21),4,6,10,18-pentaenyl= carbamate Hexachloroacetone 1,1,1,3,3,3-hexachloropropanone Hexaconazole (RS)(2,4-dichlorophenyl)(1H-1,2,4-triazolyl)= hexanol Hexaflumuron 1-[3,5-dichloro-4(1,1,2,2-tetrafluoroethoxy)phenyl]= (2,6-difluorobenzoyl)urea Hexaflurate Potassium hexafluoroarsenate Hexazinone 3-cyclohexyldimethylaminomethyl-1,3,5-= triazine-2,4(1H,3H)-dione Hexylthiofos O-cyclohexyl O,S-diethyl phosphorothioate Hexythiazox (4RS,5RS)(4-chlorophenyl)-N-cyclohexyl= methyloxo-1,3-thiazolidinecarboxamide Huancaiwo O-(12H-dibenzo[d,g][1,3]dioxocinecarbonyl)-= N-propanylidenehydroxylamine Huangcaoling ({[2-(N-methylmethanesulfonamido)oxoethyl]= amino}methyl)phosphonic acid Huanjunzuo Rac-(1R,2R)(4-chlorophenyl)(1H-1,2,4-= triazolyl)cycloheptanol 

Pesticides 119 Common names Chemical names Hydrargaphen μ-(2,2′-binaphthalenesulfonyloxy)bis(phenyl= mercury) Hydramethylnon 5,5-dimethylperhydropyrimidinone 4-trifluoro= methyl-α-(4-trifluoromethylstyryl)cinnamylidene= hyrazone Hydroprene Ethyl (E,E)-(RS)-3,7,11-trimethyldodeca-2,4-dienoate Hymexazol 5-methylisoxazolol Hyquincarb 5,6,7,8-tetrahydromethylquinolyl dimethyl= carbamate Icaridin (RS)-sec-butyl (RS)(2-hydroxyethyl)piperidine= carboxylate Imazalil (including its salts) (±)-allyl1-(2,4-dichlorophenyl)imidazolylethyl= ether; or (±)(β-allyloxyl-2,4-dichlorophenylethyl)imidazole Imazamethabenz (including its esters) A reaction product comprising of— (a) (±)(4-isopropylmethyloxoimidazolin= yl)-m-toluic acid; and (b) (±)(4-isopropylmethyloxoimidazolin= yl)-p-toluic acid Imazamox (including its salts and esters) 2-[(RS)isopropylmethyloxoimidazolin= yl]methoxymethylnicotinic acid Imazapic (including its salts and esters) 2-[(RS)isopropylmethyloxoimidazolin= yl]methylnicotinic acid Imazapyr (including its salts) 2-(4-isopropylmethyloxoimidazolinyl)= nicotinic acid Imazaquin (including its salts) (RS)(4-isopropylmethyloxoimidazolin-2= -yl)quinolinecarboxylic acid 

 Laws of Malaysia ACT 149 120 Common names Chemical names Imazethapyr (including its salts) (RS)ethyl(4-isopropylmethyloxo= imidazolinyl)nicotinic acid Imazosulfuron 1-(2-chloroimidazo[1,2-a]pyridinylsulfonyl)= (4,6-dimethoxypyrimidinyl)urea Imibenconazole S-(4-chlorobenzyl) N-(2,4-dichlorophenyl)= (1H-1,2,4-triazolyl)acetimidothioate Imicyafos (RS)-{O-ethyl S-propyl (E)-[2-(cyanoimino)ethyl= imidazolidinyl]phosphonothioate} Imidacloprid 1-(6-chloropyridylmethyl)-N-nitroimidazolidin= ylideneamine Iminoctadine (including its esters) 1,1'-iminodi(octamethylene)diguanidine Imiprothrin A mixture containing 20% of 2,5-dioxoprop= ynylimidazolidinylmethyl (1R,3S)-2,2-dimethyl= (2-methylpropenyl)cyclopropanecarboxylate and 80% of 2,5-dioxoprop ynylimidazolidinylmethyl= (1R,3R)-2,2-dimethyl(2-methylpropenyl)= cyclopropanecarboxylate Indanofan (RS)[2-(3-chlorophenyl)-2,3-epoxypropyl]= ethylindan-1,3-dione Indaziflam N-[(1R,2S)-2,3-dihydro-2,6-dimethyl-1H-indenyl]-= 6-[(1RS)fluoroethyl]-1,3,5-triazine-2,4-diamine Indoxacarb Methyl (S)-N-[7-chloro-2,3,4a,5-tetrahydro-4a-= (methoxycarbonyl)indeno[1,2-e][1,3,4]oxadiazin= ylcarbonyl]-4'-(trifluoromethoxy)carbanilate Inpyrfluxam 3-(difluoromethyl)methyl-N-[(3R)-1,1,3-= trimethyl-2,3-dihydro-1H-indenyl]-1H-= pyrazolecarboxamide Iodobonil Allyl 4-cyano-2,5-di-iodophenyl carbonate Iodomethane Iodomethane 

Pesticides 121 Common names Chemical names Iodosulfuron (including its salts and esters) 4-iodo[3-(4-methoxymethyl-1,3,5-triazinyl)= ureidosulfonyl]benzoic acid Iofensulfuron 1-(2-iodophenylsulfonyl)(4-methoxymethyl-1,3,= 5-triazinyl)urea Ioxynil (including its salts and esters) 4-hydroxy-3,5-diiodobenzonitrile Ipazine 6-chloro-N2,N2-diethyl-N4-isopropyl-1,3,5-triazine-= 2,4-diamine IPBC 3-iodopropynyl butylcarbamate Ipconazole (1RS,2SR,5RS;1RS,2SR,5SR)(4-chlorobenzyl)= isopropyl(1H-1,2,4-triazolylmethyl)cyclopentanol Ipfencarbazone 1-(2,4-dichlorophenyl)-2′,4′-difluoro-1,5-dihydro-N-= isopropyloxo-4H-1,2,4-triazolecarboxanilide Ipfentrifluconazole Rac-(2R)[4-(4-chlorophenoxy)(trifluoro= methyl)phenyl]methyl(1H-1,2,4-triazol-= 1-yl)butanol Iprobenfos S-benzyl O,O-diisopropyl phosphorothioate Iprodione 3-(3,5-dichlorophenyl)-N-isopropyl-2,4-dioxo= imidazolidinecarboxamide Iprovalicarb Isopropyl 2-methyl[(1-p-toylyethyl)carbamoyl]-= (S)-propylcarbamate Iprymidam 6-chloro-N4-isopropylpyrimidine-2,4-diamine IPSP S-ethylsulfinylmethyl O,O-diisopropyl phosphorodithioate Isamidifos O-ethyl S-(N-methylcarbaniloylmethyl) N-isopropyl= phosphoramidothioate Isazofos O,5-chloroisopropyl-1H-1,2,4-triazolyl-O,O-= diethyl phosphorothioate 

 Laws of Malaysia ACT 149 122 Common names Chemical names Isobenzan 1,3,4,5,6,7,8,8-octachloro-1,3,3a,4,7,7a-hexahydro-= 4,7-methanoisobenzofuran Isocarbamid N-isobutyloxoimidazolidinecarboxamide Isocil Isocycloseram 5-bromoisopropylmethyluracil 4-[(5RS)(3,5-dichlorofluorophenyl)-4,5-dihydro (trifluoromethyl)isoxazolyl]-N-[(4RS)ethyl oxoisoxazolidinyl]-o-toluamide, containing 80-100% of the(5S,4R)-isomer Isodrin (1R,4S,5R,8S)-1,2,3,4,10,10-hexachloro-1,4,4a,5,8,= 8a-hexahydro-1,4:5,8-dimethanonaphthalene Isofenphos Propanyl 2-{[(Ξ)-P-ethoxy-N-propanylphosphor= amidothioyl]oxy}benzoate; or Isopropyl (RS)-O-[ethoxy(isopropylamino)phosphino= thioyl]salicylate Isofenphos-methyl Propanyl 2-{[(Ξ)-P-methoxy-N-propanylphos= phoramidothioyl]oxy}benzoate; or Isopropyl (RS)-O-[(isopropylamino)methoxyphosphino= thioyl]salicylate Isofetamid N-[1,1-dimethyl(4-isopropoxy-o-tolyl)oxoethyl]-= 3-methylthiophenecarboxamide Isoflucypram N-{[5-chloro(propanyl)phenyl]methyl}-N-= cyclopropyl(difluoromethyl)fluoro= methyl-1H-pyrazolecarboxamide Isomethiozin 6-tert-butylisobutylideneaminomethylthio-1,2,4-= triazin(4H)-one Isonoruron A mixture of (i) 1,1-dimethyl(perhydro-4,7-metha= noindenyl)urea and (ii) 1,1-dimethyl(perhydro-= 4,7-methanoindenyl)urea Isopamphos 3-nonyloxypropylammonium methylphosphonate Isopolinate S-isopropyl perhydroazepinecarbothioate 

Pesticides 123 Common names Chemical names Isoprocarb o-cumenyl methylcarbamate ; or 2-isopropylphenyl methylcarbamate Isopropalin 4-isopropyl-2,6-dinitro-N,N-dipropylaniline Isoprothiolane Diisopropyl 1,3-dithiolanylidenemalonate Isopyrazam A mixture of 2 syn-isomers 3-(difluoromethyl)methyl-= N- [(1RS,4SR,9RS)-1,2,3,4-tetrahydroisopropyl-1,4-= methanonaphthalenyl]pyrazolecarboxamide; and 2 anti-isomers 3-(difluoromethyl)methyl-N-= [(1RS,4SR,9SR)-1,2,3,4-tetrahydroisopropyl-1,4-= methanonaphthalenyl]pyrazolecarboxamide Isoproturon 3-p-cumenyl-1,1-dimethylurea; or 3-(4-isopropylphenyl)-1,1-dimethylurea Isopyrimol 1-(4-chlorophenyl)methylpyrimidinylpropan= ol Isothioate Sisopropylthioethyl O,O-dimethyl phosphorodithioate Isotianil 3,4-dichloro-2′-cyano-1,2-thiazolecarboxanilide Isouron 3-(5-tert-butylisoxazolyl)-1,1-dimethylurea Isovaledione 3-(3,5-dichlorophenyl)isovalerylhydantoin Isoxaben N-[3-(1-ethylmethylpropyl)isoxazolyl]-2,6-= dimethoxybenzamide Isoxachlortole (4-chloromesylphenyl)( 5-cyclopropyl-1,2-oxazol-= 4-yl)methanone Isoxaflutole (5-cyclopropyl-1,2-oxazolyl)(α,α,α-trifluoro= mesyl-p-tolyl)methanone Isoxapyrifop (RS)[2-(4-(3,5-dichloropyridyloxy)phenoxy)= propionyl]oxazolidine Isoxathion O,O-diethyl Ophenylisoxazolyl phosphorothioate 

 Laws of Malaysia ACT 149 124 Common names Chemical names Jasmolin I (Z)-(S)methyloxo(pentenyl)cyclopentenyl= (1R,3R)-2,2-dimethyl(2-methylprop-1enyl)= cyclopropanecarboxylate; (Z)-(S)methyloxo(pentenyl)cyclopentenyl= (1R)-trans-2,2-dimethyl(2-methylpropenyl)cyclo= propanecarboxylate; or (Z)-(S)methyloxo(pentenyl)cyclopentenyl= (+)-trans-chrysanthemate Jasmolin II (Z)-(S)methyloxo(pentenyl)cyclopentenyl= (E)-(1R,3R)(2-methoxycarbonylpropenyl)-2,2-= dimethylcyclopropanecarboxylate; (Z)-(S)methyloxo(pentenyl)cyclopentenyl= (E)-(1R)-trans(2-methoxycarbonylpropenyl)-2,2-= dimethylcyclopropanecarboxylate; or (Z)-(S)methyloxo(pentenyl)cyclopentenyl= pyrethrate Jiahuangchongzong 4-[{(Ξ)-[(2Ξ)-butanylidene]hydrazinylidene}= (4-chlorophenyl)methyl]phenyl methanesulfonate Jiaxiangjunzhi Methyl (2E)(2-{[(3,4-dimethyloxo-2H= benzopyranyl)oxy]methyl}phenyl)= methoxypropenoate Jodfenphos O-2,5-dichloroiodophenylO,O-dimethyl phosphorothioate Jojoba oil - Kadethrin 5-benzylfurylmethyl (1R,3S)[(E)-(dihydrooxo= -3(2H)-thienylidene)methyl]-2,2-dimethylcyclo= propanecarboxylate; or 5-benzylfurylmethyl (1R)-cis[(E)-(dihydrooxo= -3(2H)-thienylidene)methyl]-2,2-dimethylcyclo= propanecarboxylate 

Pesticides 125 Common names Chemical names Kappa-bifenthrin (2-methyl[1,1′-biphenyl]yl)methyl (1R,3R)-= 3-[(1Z)chloro-3,3,3-trifluoropropenyl]-= 2,2-dimethylcyclopropanecarboxylate Kappa-tefluthrin (2,3,5,6-tetrafluoromethylphenyl)methyl (1R,3R)[(1Z)chloro-3,3,3-trifluoroprop= enyl]-2,2-dimethylcyclopropanecarboxylate Karanjin 3-methoxyphenyl-4H-furo[2,3-h]chromenone Karbutilate 3-(3,3-dimethylureido)phenyl tert-butylcarbamate Kasugamycin (including its salts) 1L-1,3,4/2,5,6deoxy-2,3,4,5,6-pentahydroxy= cyclohexyl 2-amino-2,3,4tetradeoxy(α-imino= glycino)-α-D-arabino-hexopyranoside Kejunlin Ammonium O,O-diethyl phosphorodithioate Kelevan Ethyl 5-(1,2,3,4,6,7,8,9,10,10-decachlorohydroxy= pentacyclo[5.3.0.02,6.03,9.04,8]decyl)oxovalerate Kinoprene Propynyl-(±)-(E,E)-3,7,11-trimethyldodeca-2,4-= dienoate Kresoxim-methyl Methyl (E)-methoxyimino[2-(o-tolyloxymethyl)= phenyl]acetate Kuicaoxi Ethyl (2Ξ){[(2Ξ){4-[(6-chloroquinoxalin-= 2-yl)oxy]phenoxy}propanoyl]oxy}methylbut-= 3-enoate Lactofen Ethyl O-[5-(2-chloro-α,α,α-trifluoro-p-tolyloxy)= nitrobenzoyl]-DL-lactate Lagenidium giganteum - Lambda-cyhalothrin A reaction product comprising of equal quantities of (R)-= α-cyanophenoxybenzyl (1S,3S)[(Z)chloro-3,3,3= -trifluoropropenyl]-2,2-dimethylcyclopropanecarbox= ylate and(S)-α-cyanophenoxybenzyl (1R,3R)= [(Z)chloro-3,3,3-trifluoropropenyl]-2,2-dimethyl= cyclopropanecarboxylate; or 

 Laws of Malaysia ACT 149 126 Common names Chemical names (R)-α-cyanophenoxybenzyl (1S)-cis[(Z)= chloro-3,3,3-trifluoropropenyl]-2,2-dimethylcyclo= propanecarboxylate and (S)-α-cyanophenoxybenzyl= (1R)-cis[(Z)chloro-3,3,3-trifluoropropenyl]-2,2-= dimethylcyclopropanecarboxylate Laminarine - Lancotrione (including its salts and esters) (2,3,5,6-tetrafluoromethylphenyl)methyl (1R,3R)[(1Z)chloro-3,3,3-trifluoroprop= enyl]-2,2-dimethylcyclopropanecarboxylate Lecanicillium lecanii - Lenacil 3-cyclohexyl-1,5,6,7-tetrahydrocyclopentapyrimidine= -2,4(3H)-dione Lepimectin Extended von Baeyer nomenclature: mixture of 80–100% (10E,14E,16E)-(1R,4S,5′S,6R,6′R,8R,12R,13S,20R,21R,= 24S)-6′-ethyl-21,24-dihydroxy-5′,11,13,22-= tetramethyloxo-(3,7,19-trioxatetracyclo= [15.6.1.14,8.020,24]pentacosa-10,14,16,22-tetraene)-= 6-spiro-2′-(tetrahydropyran)yl(Z)= methoxyiminophenylacetate and 20–0%= (10E,14E,16E)- (1R,4S,5′S,6R,6′R,8R,12R,13S,20R,21R,24= S)-21,24-dihydroxy-5′,6′,11,13,22-pentamethyloxo-= (3,7,19-trioxatetracyclo[15.6.1.14,8.020,24]pentacosa-= 10,14,16,22-tetraene)spiro-2′-(tetrahydropyran)= yl (Z)methoxyiminophenylacetate; or Bridged fused ring systems nomenclature: mixture of 80– 100% (2aE,4E,8E)(5′S,6S,6′R,7R,11R,13R,15S,17aR,20R,= 20aR,20bS)-6′-ethyl-3′,4′,5′,6,6′,7,10,11,14,15,17a,20,20= a,20b-tetradecahydro-20,20b-dihydroxy-5′,6,8,19-tetra= methyloxospiro[11,15-methano-2H,13H,17H-furo= [4,3,2-pq][2,6]benzodioxacyclooctadecin-13,2′-[2H]= pyran] yl (Z)methoxyiminophenylacetate and 20– 0% (2aE,4E,8E)-(5′S,6S,6′R,7R,11R,13R,15S,17aR,= 20R,20aR,20bS)-3′,4′,5′,6,6′,7,10,11,14,15,17a,20,20a,= 20b-tetra decahydro-20,20b-dihydroxy-5′,6,6′,8,19-= pentamethyl oxospiro[11,15-methano-2H,13H,17H-= furo[4,3,2-pq][2,6] benzodioxacyclooctadecin-13,2′-= [2H]pyran]yl (Z)methoxyiminophenylacetate 

Pesticides 127 Common names Chemical names Leptophos (RS)-(Obromo-2,5-dichlorophenyl O-methyl phenylphosphonothioate) Lindane (gamma BHC or gamma HCH) Gamma isomer of 1,2,3,4,5,6-hexachlorocyclohexane (not less than 99%) Linuron 3-(3,4-dichlorophenyl)methoxymethylurea Lirimfos Oethoxyisopropylpyrimidinyl O,O-dimethyl= phosphorothioate Lufenuron (RS)[2,5-dichloro(1,1,2,3,3,3-hexafluoro= propoxy)phenyl](2,6-difluorobenzoyl)urea Lythidathion Sethoxy-2,3-dihydrooxo-1,3,4-thiadiazol= ylmethyl O,O-dimethyl phosphorodithioate Malathion Diethyl (dimethoxythiophosphorylthio)succinate; or S-1,2-bis(ethoxycarbonyl)ethyl O,O-dimethyl= phosphorodithioate Maleic hydrazide 6-hydroxy-2H-pyridazinone; or 1,2-dihydropyridazine-3,6-dione Malonoben 2-(3,5-di-tert-butylydroxybenzylidene)malononitrile Mamestra brassicae NPV - Mamestra configurata NPV - Mancopper Ethylenebis(dithiocarbamate) mixed metal complex containing about 13.7% manganese and about 4% copper Mancozeb Manganese ethylenebis(dithiocarbamate)(polymeric) complex with zinc salt Mandestrobin (RS)methoxy-N-methyl[α-(2,5-xylyloxy)-o-tolyl]= acetamide 

 Laws of Malaysia ACT 149 128 Common names Chemical names Mandipropamid 2-(4-chlorophenyl)-N-[3-methoxy(propynyloxy= enethyl](propynyloxy)acetamide Maneb Manganese ethylenebis(dithiocarbamate)(polymeric) Mazidox Tetramethylphosphorodiamidic azide MCPA (including its salts and esters) (4-chloromethylphenoxy)acetic acid; or 4-chloro-o-tolyloxyacetic acid MCPA-thioethyl S-ethyl 4-chloro-o-tolyloxythioacetate MCPB (including its salts) 4-(4-chloro-o-tolyloxy)butyric acid Mebenil o-toluanilide Mecarbam S-(N-ethoxycarbonyl-N-methylcarbamoylmethyl)= O,O-diethyl phosphorodithioate Mecarbinzid Methyl 1-(2-methylthioethylcarbamoyl)benzimidazol-= 2-ylcarbamate Mecarphon (RS)-[S-(N-methoxycarbonyl-N-methylcarbamoyl= methyl) O-methyl methylphosphonodithioate] Mecoprop (including its salts and esters) (RS)(4-chloro-o-tolyloxy)propionic acid Mecoprop-P (including its salts and esters) (R)(4-chloro-o-tolyloxy)propionic acid Medinoterb (including esters) 6-tert-butylmethyl-2,4-dinitrophenol Mefenacet 2-(1,3-benzothiazolyloxy)-N-methylacetanilide Mefentrifluconazole Rac-(2R)[4-(4-chlorophenoxy)(trifluoro= methyl)phenyl](1H-1,2,4-triazolyl)= propanol Mefluidide 5'-(1,1,1-trifluoromethanesulfonamido)aceto-2',4'-= xylidide 

Pesticides 129 Common names Chemical names Menazon S-4,6-diamino-1,3,5-triazinylmethyl O,O-= phosphorodithioate Mepanipyrim N-(4-methylpropynylpyrimidinyl)aniline Meperfluthrin 2,3,5,6-tetrafluoro(methoxymethyl)benzyl (1R,3S)-= 3-(2,2-dichlorovinyl)-2,2-dimethylcyclo propane= carboxylate; or 2,3,5,6-tetrafluoro(methoxymethyl)benzyl (1R)-= trans(2,2-dichlorovinyl)-2,2-dimethylcyclopropane= carboxylate Mephosfolan Diethyl 4-methyl-1,3-dithiolanylidenephosphor= amidate Mepiquat (including its salts) 1,1-dimethylpiperidinium Mepronil 3’-isopropoxy-o-toluanilide Meptyldinocap (RS)(1-methylheptyl)-4,6-dinitrophenyl crotonate Mesoprazine 6-chloro-N2-isopropyl-N4-(3-methoxypropyl)-1,3,5-= triazine-2,4-diamine Mesosulfuron-methyl (including its salts and esters) 2-[(4,6-dimethoxypyrimidinylcarbamoyl)sulfamoyl]-= α-(methanesulfonamido)-p-toluic acid Mesotrione 2-(4-mesylnitrobenzoyl)cyclohexane-1,3-dione Mesulfenfos O,O-dimethyl Omethylsulfinyl-m-tolyl phospho= rothioate Metaconazole (1RS,5RS;1RS,5SR)(4-chlorobenzyl)-2,2-dimethyl= (1H-1,2,4-triazolylmethyl)cyclopentanol Metaflumizone (EZ)-2’-[2-(cyanophenyl)α,α,α-trifluoro-m-tolyl)= ethylidene](trifluoromethoxy)carbanilohydrate Metalaxyl Methyl N-(methoxyacetyl)-N-(2,6-xylyl)-DL-alaninate Metalaxyl-M Methyl N-(methoxyacetyl)-N-(2,6-xylyl)-D-alaninate 

 Laws of Malaysia ACT 149 130 Common names Chemical names Metaldehyde 2,4,6,8-tetramethyl-1,3,5,7-tetraoxacyclo-octane Metam (including its salts) Methyldithiocarbamic acid Metamifop (R)[4-(6-chloro-1,3-benzoxazolyloxy)phenoxy]-= 2′-fluoro-N-methylpropionanilide Metamitron 4-aminomethylphenyl-1,2,4-triazin(4H)-one Metarhizium anisopliae - Metarhizium anisopliae var. acridium - Metarhizium anisopliae var. anisopliae - Metarhizium anisopliae isolate ICIPE 30 - Metarhizium anisopliae isolate ICIPE 69 - Metarhizium flavoride var. flavoviride - Metazachlor 2-chloro-N-(pyrazolylmethyl)acet-2’,6’-xylidide Metazosulfuron 1-{3-chloromethyl[(5RS)-5,6-dihydromethyl-= 1,4,2-dioxazinyl]pyrazolylsulfonyl}(4,6-= dimethoxypyrimidinyl)urea Metazoxolon 4-(3-chlorophenylhydrazono)methy-1,2-oxazol-= 5(4H)-one Metconazole (1RS,5RS;1RS,5SR)(4-chlorobenzyl)-2,2-dimethyl-= 1-(1H-1,2,4-triazolylmethyl)cyclopentanol Metflurazon 4-chlorodimethylamino( α,α,α-trifluoro-m-tolyl)= pyridazin-3(2H)-one Methabenzthiazuron 1-benzothiazolyl-1,3-dimethylurea 

Pesticides 131 Common names Chemical names Methacrifos Methyl(E)(dimethoxyphosphinothioyloxy)= methylacrylate Methalpropalin α,α,α-trifluoro-N-(2-methylallyl)-2,6-dinitro-N-= propyl-p-toluidine Methamidophos O,S-dimethyl phosphoramidothioate Methasulfocarb Smethylsulfonyloxyphenyl methylthiocarbamate Methazole 2-(3,4-dichlorophenyl)methyl-1,2,4-oxadiazolidine= -3,5-dione Methfuroxam 2,4,5-trimethylfuranilide Methidathion S-2,3-dihydromethoxyoxo-1,3,4-thiadiazol= ylmethyl O,O-dimethyl phosphorodithioate Methiobencarb Smethoxybenzyl diethylthiocarbamate Methiocarb 4-methylthio-3,5-xylyl methylcarbamate Methiuron 1,1-dimethylm-tolylthiourea Methocrotophos (E)(N-methoxyl-N-methylcarbamoyl)methylvinyl= dimethyl phosphate Methometon 6-methoxyl-N2,N4-bis(3-methoxypropyl)-1,3,5-triazine-= 2,4-diamine Methomyl S-methyl N-(methylcarbamoyloxy)thioacetimidate Methoprene Isopropyl (E,E)-(RS)methoxy-3,7,11-trimethyl= dodeca-2,4-dienoate Methoprotryne N2-isopropyl-N4-(3-methoxypropyl)methylthio-= 1,3,5-triazine-2,4-diamine Methoquin-butyl Butyl 3-methylquindinecarboxylate Methothrin 4-(methoxymethyl)benzylchrysanthemum monocarboxylate ; 

 Laws of Malaysia ACT 149 132 Common names Chemical names [4-(methoxymethyl)phenyl]methyl 2,2-dimethyl(2-= methylpropenyl)cyclopropanecarboxylate; or 2,2-dimethyl(2-methylpropyl)cyclopropane= carboxylicacid p-(methoxymethyl)benzyl ester Methoxychlor 1,1,1-trichloro-2,2-bis(4-methoxyphenyl)ethane 2-Methoxyethylmercury chloride (2-methoxyethyl)mercury(II) chloride; (2-methoxyethyl)mercury(2+) chloride; or (2-methoxyethyl)mercuric chloride Methoxyfenozide N-tert-butyl-N′-(3-methoxy-o-toluoyl)-3,5-xylohydrazide Methoxyphenone 4-methoxy-3,3′-dimethylbenzophenone Methylarsenic sulfide Methylarsenic sulfide Methylarsonic acid (including its salts eg: MSMA and DSMA) Methylarsonic acid Methyl bromide Bromomethane Methyldymron 1-methyl(1-methylphenylethyl)phenylurea;or 3-(α,α-dimethylbenzyl)methylphenylurea Methyl iodide - see iodomethane Methyl iodide or iodomethane Methyl isothiocyanate Methyl isothiocyanate Methylmercury benzoate Methylmercury(II) benzoate; methylmercury(2+) benzoate; or methylmercuric benzoate 

Pesticides 133 Common names Chemical names Methylmercury dicyandiamide 1-cyano(methylmercurio)guanidine Methylmercury pentachlorophenoxide Methylmercury(II) pentachlorophenolate; methylmercury(II) pentachlorophenoxide; methylmercury(2+) pentachlorophenolate; methylmercury(2+) pentachlorophenoxide; methylmercuric pentachlorophenolate; or methylmercuric pentachlorophenoxide Methylneodecanamide 2,2,2-trialkyl-N-methylacetamide Metiram Zinc ammoniate ethylenebis(dithiocarbamate)-poly= (ethylenethiuram disulfide) Metobenzuron (±)methoxy[4-(2-methoxy-2,4,4-trimethyl= chromanyloxy)phenyl]methylurea Metobromuron 3-(4-bromophenyl)methoxymethylurea Metofluthrin 2,3,5,6-tetrafluoro(methoxymethyl)benzyl Metolachlor 2-chloro-6’-ethyl-N-(2-methoxymethylethyl)aceto= -o-toluidide S-metolachlor A mixture of 80–100% 2-chloro-N-(6-ethyl-o-tolyl)-N-= [(1S)methoxymethylethyl]acetamide and 20–0% 2-= chloro-N-(6-ethyl-o-tolyl)-N-[(1R)methoxy= methylethyl]acetamide; or A mixture of 80–100% 2-chloro-6′-ethyl-N-[(1S)= methoxymethylethyl]acet-o-toluidide and 20–0% 2-chloro-6′-ethyl-N-[(1R)methoxymethylethyl]acet-= o-toluidide Metolcarb m-tolyl methylcarbamate 

 Laws of Malaysia ACT 149 134 Common names Chemical names Metominostrobin (E)(methoxyimino)-N-methyl(2-phenoxy= phenyl)acetamide Metosulam 2’,6’-dichloro-5,7-dimethoxy-3’-methyl[1,2,4]triazolo= [1,5-a]pyrimidinesulfonanilide Metoxadiazone 5-methoxy(2-methoxyphenyl)-1,3,4-oxadiazol-= 2(3H)-one Metoxuron 3-(3-chloromethoxyphenyl)-1,1-dimethylurea Metrafenone 3’-bromo-2,3,4,6’-tetramethoxy-2’,6-dimethyl= benzophenone Metribuzin 4-aminotert-butylmethylthio-1,2,4-triazin-5(4H)= -one Metsulfovax 2,4-dimethyl-1,3-thiazolecarboxanilide Metsulfuron (including esters) 2-(4-methoxymethyl-1,3,5-triazinylcarbomoyl= sulfamoyl)benzoic acid Metsulfuron-methyl Methyl 2-(4-methoxymethyl-1,3,5-triazinyl= carbamoylsulfamoyl)benzoate Mevinphos Methyl(dimethoxyphosphinoyloxy)butenoate Mexacarbate 4-dimethylamino-3,5-xylyl methylcarbamate Mieshuan (Pyridinyl)methyl (4-nitrophenyl)carbamate Milbemectin A mixture of (10E,14E,16E,22Z)-(1R,4S,5'S,6R,6'R,= 8R,13R,20R,21R,24S)-6'-ethyl-21,24-dihydroxy-5',= 11,13,22-tetramethyl-3,7,19-trioxatetracyclo [15.6.1.= 14.8.0.20.24]pentacosa-10,14,16,22-tetraenespiro-2'-= tetrahydropyranoneand(10E,14E,16E,22Z)-(1R,= 4S,5'S,6R,6'R,8R,13R,20R,21R,24S)-21,24-dihydr= oxy-5',6',11,13,22-pentamethyl 3,7,19-trioxatetra= cyclo[15.6.1.1.4.8.0.20.24]pentacosa-10,14,16,22-tetra= enespiro-2'-tetrahydropyranone in the ratio 7 to 3 Milneb 4,4',6,6'-tetramethyl-3.3′-ethylenedi-1,3,5-thiadiazinane-= 2-thione 

Pesticides 135 Common names Chemical names Mipafox N,N'-di-isopropylphosphorodiamidic fluoride Mirex Dodecachloropentacyclo[5.3.0.02,6.03.9.05.8]decane MNAF 2-fluoro-N-methyl-Nnaphthylacetamide Molinate S-ethyl azepanecarbothioate Momfluorothrin 2,3,5,6-tetrafluoro(methoxymethyl)benzyl (EZ)-= (1RS,3RS;1RS,3SR)(2-cyanopropenyl)-2,2-= dimethylcyclopropanecarboxylate Monalide 4'-chloro-2,2-dimethylvaleranilide Monisouron 1-(5-tert-butyl-1,2-oxazolyl)methylurea Monocrotophos Dimethyl (E)methyl(methylcarbamoyl)vinyl= phosphate Monolinuron 3-(4-chlorophenyl)methoxymethylurea Monuron 3-(4-chlorophenyl)-1,1-dimethylurea Monuron-TCA 3-(4-chlorophenyl)-1,1-dimethyluronium trichloroacetate Morfamquat 1,1'-bis(3,5-dimethylmorpholinocarbonylmethyl)-4,4'-= bipyridinium Morphothion O,O-dimethyl S-morpholinocarbonylmethyl= phosphorodithioate MTMC m-tolyl methylcarbamate Myclobutanil 2-p-chlorophenyl(1H-1,2,4-triazolylmethyl)= hexanenitrile Myclozolin (RS)3-(3,5-dichlorophenyl)methoxymethyl= methyl-1,3-oxazolidine-2,4-dione Myrothecium verrucaria - Nabam Disodium ethylenebis (dithiocarbamate) 

 Laws of Malaysia ACT 149 136 Common names Chemical names Naled 1,2-dibromo-2,2-dichloroethyl dimethyl phosphate Naproanilide N-phenyl(2-naphthyloxy)propionamide Napropamide (RS)-N,N-diethyl(1-naphthyloxy)propionamide Napropamide-M (R)-N,N-diethyl(1-naphthyloxy)propionamide Naptalam (including its salts) Nnapthylphthalamic acid Natamycin (8E,14E,16E,18E,20E)-(1R,3S,5R,7R,12R,22R,24S,= 25R,26S)(3-amino-3,6-dideoxy--D-manno pyra= nosyloxy)-1,3,26-trihydroxymethyloxo-6,11,= 28-trioxatricyclo[22.3.1.0.5,7]octacosa-8,14,16,18,20-= pentaenecarboxylic acid Neburon 1-butyl(3,4-dichlorophenyl)methylurea Niclosamide (including its salts) 2',5-dichloro-4'-nitrosalicylanilide Nicosulfuron 2-(4,6-dimethoxypyrimidinylcarbamoylsulfamoyl)= -N,N-dimethylnicotinamide Nicotine (including its salt) (S)(1-methylpyrrolidinyl)pyridine Nifluridide 6'-amino-α,α,α,2,2,3,3,-heptafluoro-5'-nitropropion-= m-toluidide Nipyraclofen 1-(2,6-dichloro-α,α,α-trifluoro-p-tolyl)nitro= pyrazolylamine Nitenpyram (E)-N-(6-chloropyridylmethyl)-N-ethyl-N'-methyl-= 2-nitrovinylidenediamine Nithiazine 2-nitromethylene-1,3-thiazinane Nitralin 4-methylsulfonyl-2,6-dinitro-N,N-dipropylaniline Nitrapyrin 2-chlorotrichloromethylpyridine Nitrilacarb 4,4-dimethyl(methylcarbamoyloxyimino)pentane= nitrile 

Pesticides 137 Common names Chemical names Nitrofen 2,4-dichlorophenyl 4-nitrophenyl ether Nitrofluorfen 2-chloro-α,α,α-trifluoro-p-tolylnitrophenyl ether Nitrostyrene 4-[(EZ)nitropropenyl]phenyl thiocyanate Nitrothal-isopropyl Diisopropyl 5-nitroisophthalate Nonanoic acid Nonanoic acid Norbormide 5-(α-hydroxy-αpyridylbenzyl)(pyridyl= benzylidene)-8,9,10-trinorbornene-2,3-dicarboximide Norflurazon 4-chloromethylamino(α-α-α-trifluoro-m-toly)= pyridazin-3(2H)-one Nornicotine 3-(pyrrolidinyl)pyridine Noruron 3-(hexahydro-4,7-methanoindanyl)-1,1-dimethylurea Nosema locustae - Novaluron (RS)[3-chloro(1,1,2-trifluorotrifluoromethoxy= ethoxy)phenyl](2,6-difluorobenzoyl)urea Noviflumuron 1-{3,5-dichlorofluoro[(RS)-1,1,2,3,3,3- hexafluoro= propoxy]phenyl}(2,6-difluorobenzoyl)urea Nuarimol (RS)chloro-4'-fluoro--(pyrimidinyl)benzhydryl= alcohol OCH Perchlorocyclohexenone Octhilinone 2-octylisothiazol-3(2H)-one Ofurace (±)-α-(2-chloro-N-2,6-xylylacetamido)-γ-butyrolactone Oleic acid (including its salts) Oleic acid Omethoate O,O-dimethyl S-methylcarbamoylmethyl phosphorothioate Orbencarb Schlorobenzyl diethylthiocarbamate 

 Laws of Malaysia ACT 149 138 Common names Chemical names Ortho-dichlorobenzene o-dichlorobenzene Orthosulfamuron 1-(4,6-dimethoxypyrimidinyl)[2-dimethyl= carbamoyl)phenylsulfamoyl]urea Orysastrobin (2E)(methoxyimino){2-[(3E,5E,6E)(methoxy= imino)-4,6-dimethyl-2,8-dioxa-3,7-diazanona-3,6-= dienyl] phenyl}-N-methylacetamide Oryzalin 3,5-dinitro-N4,N4-dipropylsulfanilamide Oxadiargyl 5-tert-butyl[2,4-dichloro(propynyloxy) phenyl]-= 1,3,4-oxadiazol-2(3H)-one Oxadiazon 5-tert-butyl(2,4-dichloroisopropoxyphenyl)1,3,4-= oxadiazol-2(3H)-one Oxadixyl 2-methoxy-N-(2-oxo-1,3-oxazolidinyl)aceto-2',6'-= xylidide Oxamyl N,N-dimethylmethylcarbamoyloxyimino= (methylthio)acetamide Oxapyrazon (including its salts) 5-bromo-1,6-dihydrooxophenylpyridazin= yloxamic acid Oxasulfuron Oxetanyl 2-[(4,6-dimethylpyrimidinyl)= carbamoylsulfamoyl]benzoate Oxathiapiprolin 1-(4-{4-[(5RS)(2,6-difluorophenyl)-4,5-dihydro-= 1,2-oxazolyl]-1,3-thiazolyl}piperidyl)[5-= methyl(trifluoromethyl)-1H-pyrazolyl]ethanone Oxaziclomefone 3-[1-(3,5-dichlorophenyl)methylethyl]-3,4-dihydro= methylphenyl-2H-1,3-oxazinone Oxine-copper Bis(quinolinolato)copper Oxolinic acid 5-ethyl-5,8-dihydrooxo[1,3]dioxolo[4,5-g]quinoline= carboxylic acid Oxpoconazole fumarate {(RS)[3-(4-chlorophenyl)propyl]-2,4,4-trimethyl-1,3-= oxazolidinyl}(imidazolyl)methanone fumarate (2:1) 

Pesticides 139 Common names Chemical names Oxycarboxin 5,6-dihydromethyl-1,4-oxathi-inecarboxanilide= 4,4-dioxide Oxydemeton-methyl Sethylsulfinylethyl O,O-dimethyl phosphorothioate Oxydeprofos Sethylsulfinylmethylethyl O,O-dimethyl phos= phorothioate Oxydisulfoton O,O diethyl Sethylsuphinyl ethyl phosphorodithioate Oxyfluorfen 2-chloro- α,α,α-trifluoro-p-tolyl 3-ethoxynitrophenyl= ether Paclobutrazol (2RS,3RS)(4-chlorophenyl)-4,4-dimethyl= (1H-1,2,4-triazolyl)pentanol Paecylomyces fumosoroseus - Paecylomyces lilacinus - Paichongding (5Ξ,7Ξ)[(6-chloropyridinyl)methyl]= methylnitropropoxy-1,2,3,5,6,7-= hexahydroimidazo[1,2-a]pyridine Pantoea agglomerans - Para-dichlorobenzene p-dichlorobenzene Parafluron 1,1-dimethyl(α,α,α-trifluoro-p-tolyl)urea Paraquat (including its salts) 1,1'-dimethyl-4,4'-bipyridinium Parathion O,O-diethyl Onitrophenyl phosphorothioate Parathion-methyl O,O-dimethyl Onitrophenyl phosphorothioate Parinol Bis(4-chlorophenyl)pyridylmethanol Paris green Copper aceto-arsenite Pebulate S-propyl butyl(ethyl)thiocarbamate 

 Laws of Malaysia ACT 149 140 Common names Chemical names Pefurazoate Pentenyl N-furfuryl-N-imidazolylcarbonyl-DL-= homoalaninate Penconazole 1-(2,4-dichloro-ß-propylphenethyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazole Pencycuron 1-(4-chlorobenzyl)cyclopentylphenylurea Pendimethalin N-(1-ethylpropyl)-2,6-dinitro-3,4-xylidine Penflufen 2′-[(RS)-1,3-dimethylbutyl]fluoro-1,3-dimethyl= pyrazolecarboxanilide Peniophora gigantea - Penoxsulam 3-(2,2-difluoroethoxy)-N-(5,8-dimethoxy[1,2,4]= triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidinyl)-α,α,α-trifluorotoluene= sulfonamide Pentachlorobenzene Pentachlorobenzene Pentachlorophenol (including its salts) Pentachlorophenol Pentanochlor 3'-chloromethylvalero-p-toluidide Penthiopyrad (RS)-N-[2-(1,3-dimethylbutyl)methyl(trifluoro= methyl)-1H-pyrazolecarboxamide Pentmethrin (1RS,2EZ)cyanomethylpentenyl (1RS,3RS;1RS,3SR)(2,2-dichlorovinyl)-2,2-= dimethylcyclopropanecarboxylate; or (1RS,2EZ)cyanomethylpentenyl (1RS)-cis-= trans(2,2-dichlorovinyl)-2,2-dimethylcyclopropane= carboxylate Pentoxazone 3-(4-chlorocyclopentyloxyfluorophenyl)= isopropylidene-1,3-oxazolidine-2,4-dione Perfluidone 1,1,1-trifluoro-2'-methyl-4'(phenylsulphonyl) methane= sulphonanilide 

Pesticides 141 Common names Chemical names Periplaneta fuliginosa densovirus - Permethrin 3-phenoxybenzyl (1RS,3RS;1RS,3SR)(2,2-= dichlorovinyl)-2,2-dimethylcyclopropanecarboxylate Pethoxamid 2-chloro-N-(2-ethoxyethyl)-N-(2-methylphenylprop-= 1-enyl)acetamide Phenamacril Ethyl (2EZ)aminocyanophenylacrylate Phenisopham Isopropyl 3-[ethyl(phenyl)carbamoyloxy]carbanilate Phenkapton S-2,5-dichlorophenylthiomethyl O,O-diethyl phosphorodithioate Phenmedipham Methyl 3-(3-methylcarbaniloyloxy)carbanilate; or 3-methoxycarbonylaminophenyl 3-methylcarbanilate Phenmedipham-ethyl 3-ethoxycarbonylaminophenyl 3’-methylcarbanilate Phenobenzuron 1-benzoyl(3,4-dichlorophenyl)-3,3-dimethylurea Phenothrin 3-phenoxybenzyl (1RS)-cis-trans-2,2-dimethyl(2-= methylpropenyl)cyclopropanecarboxylate Phenothrin[(1R)-isomers] 3-phenoxybenzyl (1R)-cis-trans-2,2-dimethyl(2-= methylpropenyl)cyclopropanecarboxylate Phenothrin[(1R)-trans- isomers] or d-phenothrin 3-phenoxybenzyl (1R)-cis-trans-2,2-dimethyl(2-= methylpropenyl)cyclopropanecarboxylate(contain ≥ 95% (1R)-isomers, ≥ 75% trans isomers) Phenthoate S-α-ethoxycarbonylbenzyl O,O-dimethyl phosphorothioate 8-phenylmercurioxyquinoline Phenylmercury(II) quinolinolate; phenylmercury(2+) quinolinolate; or phenylmercuric quinolinolate Phenyl mercury acetate Phenylmercury(II) acetate; phenylmercury(2+) acetate; or 

 Laws of Malaysia ACT 149 142 Common names Chemical names phenylmercuric acetate Phenylmercury chloride Phenylmercury(II) chloride; phenylmercury(2+) chloride; or phenylmercuric chloride Phenylmercury derivative of pyrocatechol o-(phenylmercuriooxy)phenol; or phenylmercuric pyrocatecholate Phenylmercury nitrate Phenylmercury(II) nitrate; phenylmercury(2+) nitrate; or phenylmercuric nitrate Phenylmercury salicylate Phenylmercury(II) salicylate; phenylmercury(2+) salicylate; or phenylmercuric salicylate 2-phenylphenol (including its salts) Biphenylol Phlebiopsis gigantea - Phorate O,O-diethyl S-ethylthiomethyl phosphorodithioate Phosacetim O,O-bis(4-chlorophenyl) N-acetimidoylphosphora= midothioate Phosalone Schloro-2,3-dihydrooxobenzoxazolylmethyl O,O= diethyl phosphorodithioate Phosdiphen (including esters) Bis(2,4-dichlorophenyl)ethyl phosphate Phosfolan Diethyl 1,3-dithiolanylidenephosphoramidate Phosfolan-methyl Dimethyl 1,3-dithiolanylidenephosphoramidate; or 2-(dimethoxyphosphinoylimino)-1,3-dithiolane Phosmet O,O-dimethyl S-phthalimidomethyl phosphorodithioate 

Pesticides 143 Common names Chemical names Phosnichlor Ochloronitrophenyl O,O-dimethyl phosphoro= thioate Phosphamidon 2-chlorodiethylcarbamoylmethylvinyl dimethyl phosphate Phosphine (including its metallic phosphides) Phosphine Phosphocarb (RS)-{O-ethyl O-[2-(methylcarbamoyloxy)phenyl]S-= propyl phosphorothioate}; or (RS)[ethoxy(propylthio)phosphinoyloxy]phenyl methylcarbamate Phoxim O,O-diethyl α-cyanobenzylideneaminooxyphospho= nothioate; or (EZ)(diethoxyphosphinothioyloxyimino)phenyl= acetonitrile Phoxim-methyl O,O-dimethyl -cyanobenzylineneamino-oxyphospho= nothioate Phythium oligandrium - Picarbutrazox Tert-butyl (6-{[(Z)-(1-methyl-1Htetrazolyl)(phenyl)= methylene]aminooxymethyl}pyridyl)carbamate Picloram (including its salts) 4-amino-3,5,6-trichloropyridinecarboxylic acid Picolinafen 4′-fluoro(α,α,α-trifluoro-m-tolyloxy)pyridine= carboxanilide Picoxystrobin Methyl (E)methoxy{2-[6-(trifluoromethyl)= pyridyloxymethyl]phenyl}acrylate Pimaricin (8E,14E,16E,18E,20E)-(1S,3R,5S,7S,12R,24R,25S= ,26R)(3-amino-3,6-dideoxy-β-D-mannopyrano= syloxy)-1,3,26-trihydroxymethyloxo-6,11,28= -trioxatricyclo [22.3.1.05.7 ]octacosa-8,14,16,18,20-= pentaenecarboxylic acid Pindone (including its salts) 2-pivaloylindan-1,3-dione 

 Laws of Malaysia ACT 149 144 Common names Chemical names Pinoxaden 8-(2,6-diethyl-p-tolyl)-1,2,4,5-tetrahydrooxo-7H-= pyrozolo[1,2-d][1,4,5]oxadiazepinyl 2,2-dimethyl= propionate Piperalin 3-(2-methylpiperidino)propyl 3,4-dichlorobenzoate Piperonyl butoxide 2-(2-butoxyethoxy)ethyl 6-propylpiperonyl ether Piperophos Smethylpiperidinocarbonylmethyl O,O-dipropyl= phosphorodithioate Piprotal 5-[bis[2-(2-butoxyethoxy)ethoxy]methyl]1,3-benzo= dioxole Pirimetaphos 2-diethylaminomethylpyrimidinyl methyl methylphosphoramidate Pirimicarb 2-dimethylamino-5,6-dimethylpyrimidinyl= dimethylcarbamate Pirimiphos-ethyl Odiethylaminomethylpyrimidinyl,O,O-diethyl= phosphorothioate Pirimiphos-methyl Odiethylaminomethylpyrimidinyl,O,O-= dimethyl phosphorothioate PMA Phenylmercury acetate Polynactins Consist of one or more of the following substance: (a) [1R(1R*,2R*,5R*,7R*, 10S*, 11S*, 14S*, 16S*,= 19R*, 20R*, 23R*, 25R*, 28S*, 29S*, 32S*, 34= S*)]-5,14,23,32-tetraethyl-2,11,20,29-tetramethyl= -4,13,22,31,37,38,39,40-octaoxapentacyclo[32.2.= 1,17,10.116.19.125,28]tetracontane-3,12,21,30-tetrone= (tetranectin); (b) [1R(1R*,2R*,5R*,7R*,10S*,11S*,14S*,16S*,= 19R*,20R*,23R*,25R*,28S*,29S*,32S*,34S*)]-= 5,14,23-triethyl-2,11,20,29,32-pentamethyl-= 4,13,22,31,37,38,39,40-octaoxapentacyclo= [32.2.1.17,10.116,19.125,28]tetracontane-3,12,21,30-= tetrone (trinactin); or 

Pesticides 145 Common names Chemical names (c) [1R(1R*,2R*,5R*,7R*,10S*,11S*,14S*,16S*,= 19R*,20R*,23R*,25R*,28S*,29S*,32S*,34S*)]-= 5,23-diethyl-2,11,14,20,29,32-hexamethyl-= 4,13,22,31,37,38,39,40-octaoxapentacyclo= [32.2.1.17,10.116,19.125,28]tetracontane-3,12,21,30-= tetrone (dinactin). Polychloroterpenes Heptachloro-2,2-dimethylmethyleneorbornane Polyoxins Consist of one or more of the following substance: (a) polyoxine B: 5-(2-aminoO-carbamoyldeoxy-L-xylon= amido)-1,5-dideoxy(1,2,3,4-tetrahydro= hydroxymethyl-2,4-dioxopyrimidinyl)-β-D-= allofuranuronic acid (b) polyoxine D or polyoxorim: 5-(2-aminoO-carbamoyldeoxy-L-xylon= amido)(5-carboxy-1,2,3,4-tetrahydro-2,4-dioxo= pyrimidinyl)-1,5-dideoxy-β-D-allofuranuronic acid Polyoxorim 5-(2-aminoO-carbamoyldeoxy-L-xylonamido)-1= -(5-carboxy-1,2,3,4-tetrahydro-2,4-dioxopyrimidin= yl)-1,5-dideoxy-β-D-allofuranuronic acid Prallethrin (S)methyloxopropynylcyclopent= enyl(1R)-cis-trans-2,2-dimethyl(2-methylprop= enyl)cyclopropanecarboxylate Pretilachlor 2-chloro-2’,6’-diethyl-N-(2-propoxyethyl)acetanilide Primidophos O,O-diethyl O-(2-N-ethylacetamidomethylpyrimi= dinyl)phosphorothioate Primisulfuron (including esters) 2-[4,6-bis(difluoromethoxy)pyrimidinylcarbamoyl= sulfamoyl]benzoic acid Probenazole 3-allyloxy-1,2-benzothiazole 1,1-dioxide; or 3-allyloxy-1,2-benz[d]isothiazole 1,1-dioxide 

 Laws of Malaysia ACT 149 146 Common names Chemical names Prochloraz (including its salts) N-propyl-N-[2-(2,4,6-trichlorophenoxy)ethyl]= imidazolecarboxamide Proclonol 4,4'-dichloro-α-cycloproplbenzhydrol Procyazine 2-(4-chlorocyclopropylamino-1,3,5-triazine= ylamino)methylpropionitrile Procymidone N-(3,5-dichlorophenyl)-1,2-dimethylcyclopropane= -1,2-dicarboximide Prodiamine 5-dipropylamino-α,α,α-trifluoro-4,6-dinitro-o-= toluidine Profenofos Obromochlorophenyl O-ethyl S-propyl phosphorothioate Profluazol 1,2′-dichloro-4′-fluoro-5′-[(6S,7aR)fluoro-2,3,5,6,= 7,7a-hexahydro-1,3-dioxo-1H-pyrrolo[1,2-c]imidazol= yl]methanesulfonanilide Profluralin N-(cyclopropylmethyl)- α,α,α trifluoro-2,6-dinitro-N-= propyl-p-toluidine Profluthrin 2,3,5,6-tetrafluoromethylbenzyl (EZ)-(1RS,3RS;= 1RS,3SR)-2,2-dimethylpropenylcyclopropane= carboxylate; or 2,3,5,6-tetrafluoromethylbenzyl (EZ)-(1RS)-cis-= trans-2,2-dimethylpropenylcyclopropane= carboxylate Profoxydim (5RS){(EZ)[(2RS)(4-chlorophenoxy) propoxy= imino]butyl}hydroxy[(3RS)-thianyl]cyclohex= enone Proglinazine (including its salts and esters) N-(4-chloroisopropylamino-1,3,5-triazinyl)= glycine Promacyl 5-methyl-m-cumenyl butyryl(methyl)carbamate; or 3-isopropylmethylphenyl butyryl(methyl)carbamate Promecarb 3-isopropylmethylphenyl methylcarbamate 

Pesticides 147 Common names Chemical names Prometon N2,N4-di-isopropylmethoxy-1,3,5-triazine-2,4-= diamine Prometryn N2,N4-di-isopropylmethylthio-1,3,5-triazine-2,4-= diamine Propachlor 2-chloro-N-isopropylacetanilide Propamocarb (including its salts) Propyl 3-(dimethylamino)propylcarbamate Propanil 3',4'-dichloropropionanilide Propaphos 4-(methylthio)phenyl dipropyl phosphate Propaquizafop 2-isopropylideneamino-oxyethyl (R)[4-(6-= chloroquinoxalinyloxy)phenoxy]propionate Propargite 2-(4-tert-butylphenoxy)cyclohexyl propynyl sulfite Proparthrin [2-methyl(propynyl)furanyl]methyl (1RS,3RS;1RS,3SR)-2,2-dimethyl(2-methylprop= enyl)cyclopropanecarboxylate; [2-methyl(propynyl)furanyl]methyl (1RS)-cis-= trans-2,2-dimethyl(2-methylpropenyl)cyclo= propanecarboxylate; or (2-methylpropargylfuranyl)methyl (±)-cis-trans-= chrysanthemate Propazine 6-chloro-N2,N4-di-isopropyl-1,3,5-triazine 2,4-diamine Propetamphos (E)-Oisopropoxycarbonylmethylvinyl O-methyl= ethylphosphoramidothioate Propham Isopropyl carbanilate Propiconazole (±)[2-(2,4-dichlorophenyl)propyl-1,3-dioxolan= ylmethyl]-1H-1,2,4-triazole Propineb Polymeric zinc propylenebis(dithiocarbamate) Propisochlor 2-chloro-6'-ethyl-N-isopropoxymethylaceto-o-toluidide 

 Laws of Malaysia ACT 149 148 Common names Chemical names Propoxur 2-isopropoxyphenyl methylcarbamate Propoxycarbazone (including its salts) Methyl 2-[(4,5-dihydromethyloxopropoxy-= 1H-1,2,4-triazolyl)carboxamidosulfonyl]benzoate Propyl isome Dipropyl 5,6,7,8-tetrahydromethylnaphthol[2,3-d]-= 1,3-dioxole-5,6-dicarboxylate Propyrisulfuron 1-(2-chloropropylimidazo[1,2-b]pyridazin= ylsulfonyl)(4,6-dimethoxypyrimidinyl)urea Propyzamide 3,5-dichloro-N-(1,1-dimethylpropynyl)benzamide Proquinazid 6-iodopropoxypropylquinazolin-4(3H)-one Prosulfalin N-(4-dipropylamino-3,5-dinitrophenylsulfonyl)-S,S-= dimethylsulfimide Prosulfocarb S-benzyl dipropylthiocarbamate Prosulfuron 1-(4-methoxylmethyl-1,3,5-triazinyl)[2-= (3,3,3-trifluoropropyl)-phenylsulfonyl]urea Prothidathion S-2,3-dihydroisopropyoxyoxo-1,3,4-thiadiazol= ylmethyl O,O-diethyl phosphorodithioate Prothiocarb S-ethyl (3-dimethylaminopropyl)thiocarbamate Prothioconazole (RS)[2-(1-chlorocyclopropyl)(2-chlorophenyl)= hydroxypropyl]-2,4-dihydro-1,2,4-triazolethione Prothiofos O,2,4-dichlorophenyl O-ethyl S-propyl phosphoro= dithioate Prothoate O,O-diethyl S-isopropylcarbamoylmethyl phosphorodithioate Protrifenbute (RS)[4-(4-chlorophenyl)cyclopropylbutyl]= fluorophenyl phenyl ether Proxan (including its salts) O-isopropyl hydrogen dithiocarbonate 

Pesticides 149 Common names Chemical names Prymidophos O,O-diethyl ON-ethylacetamidomethylpyrimidin= yl phosphorothioate; or N-(4-diethoxyphosphinothioyloxymethylpyrimidin= yl)-N-ethylacetamide Prynachlor 2-chloro-N-(1-methylpropynyl)acetanilide Pseudomonas aurefaciens Tx- I - Pseudomonas cepacia - Pseudomonas chlorophis - Pseudomonas fluorescens - Pseudomonas gladioli - Pseudomonas syringae - Pseudomonas tolassii bacteriophage - Pseudozyma flocculosa - Pydanon (RS)-hexahydrohydroxy-3,6-dioxopyridazin= ylacetic acid Pydiflumetofen 3-(difluoromethyl)-N-methoxymethyl-N-= [(2Ξ)(2,4,6-trichlorophenyl)propanyl]-= 1H-pyrazolecarboxamide Pyflubumide 3′-isobutyl-N-isobutyryl-1,3,5-trimethyl-4′-[2,2,2-= trifluoromethoxy(trifluoromethyl)ethyl]pyrazole-= 4-carboxanilide Pymetrozine (E)-4,5-dihydromethyl(3-pyridylmethylene= amino)-1,2,4-triazin-3(2H)-one Pyracarbolid 3,4-dihydromethyl-2H-pyrancarboxanilide Pyraclofos (RS)-[O(4-chlorophenyl)pyrazolyl O-ethyl S-= propyl phosphorothioate] 

 Laws of Malaysia ACT 149 150 Common names Chemical names Pyraclonil 1-(3-chloro-4,5,6,7-tetrahydropyrazolo[1,5-a]pyridine= yl)[methyl(propynyl)amino]pyrazole= carbonitrile Pyraclostrobin Methyl {2-[1-(4-chlorophenyl)pyrazolyloxy= methyl]phenyl}(methoxy)carbamate Pyraflufen (including its salts and esters) 2-chloro(4-chlorodifluoromethoxymethyl= pyrazolyl)fluorophenoxyacetic acid Pyrafluprole 1-(2,6-dichloro-α,α,α-trifluoro-p-tolyl)(fluoro= methylthio)[(pyrazinylmethyl)amino]pyrazole= carbonitrile Pyrametostrobin Methyl 2-[(1,4-dimethylphenylpyrazolyl)oxy= methyl]-N-methoxycarbanilate Pyraoxystrobin Methyl (2E)(2-{[3-(4-chlorophenyl)methyl= pyrazolyl]oxymethyl}phenyl)methoxyacrylate Pyrapropoyne N-{(2Z)[3-chloro(2-cyclopropylethynyl)= pyridinyl][(propanyloxy)imino]ethy}-= 3-(difluoromethyl)methyl-1H-pyrazole= carboxamide Pyrasulfotole (5-hydroxy-1,3-dimethylpyrazolyl)(α,α,α-trifluoro= mesyl-p-tolyl)methanone Pyraziflumid N-(3′,4′-difluoro[1,1′-biphenyl]yl)= (trifluoromethyl)pyrazinecarboxamide Pyrazolynate 4-(2,4-dichlorobenzoyl)-1,3-dimethylpyrazolyl= toluenesulfonate Pyrazon 5-aminochlorophenylpyridazone Pyrazophos Ethyl 2-diethoxyphosphinothioyloxymethyl= pyrazolo[1,5-a]pyrimidinecarboxylate Pyrazosulfuron (including esters) 5-(4,6-dimethoxypyrimidinylcarbamoyl= sulfamoyl)methylpyrazolecarboxylic acid 

Pesticides 151 Common names Chemical names Pyrazoxyfen 2-[4-(2,4-dichlorobenzoyl)-1,3-dimethylpyrazol= yloxy]acetophenone Pyresmethrin 5-benzylfurylmethyl(E)-(1R)-trans(2-methoxy= carbonylpropenyl)-2,2-dimethylcyclopropane= carboxylate Pyrethrin I (Z)-(S)methyloxo(penta-2,4-dienyl)cyclopent-= 2-enyl (1R,3R)-2,2-dimethyl(2-methylpropenyl)= cyclopropanecarboxylate; (Z)-(S)methyloxo(penta-2,4-dienyl)cyclopent-= 2-enyl (1R)-trans-2,2-dimethyl(2-methylprop= enyl)cyclopropanecarboxylate; or (Z)-(S)methyloxo(penta-2,4-dienyl)cyclopent-= 2-enyl (+)-trans-chrysanthemate Pyrethrin II (Z)-(S)methyloxo(penta-2,4-dienyl)cyclopent-= 2-enyl (E)-(1R,3R)(2-methoxycarbonylpropenyl)= -2,2-dimethylcyclopropanecarboxylate (Z)-(S)methyloxo(penta-2,4-dienyl)cyclopent-= 2-enyl (E)-(1R)-trans(2-methoxycarbonylprop= enyl)-2,2-dimethylcyclopropanecarboxylate; or (Z)-(S)methyloxo(penta-2,4-dienyl)cyclopent-= 2-enyl pyrethrate Pyrethrins Six insecticidal constituents present in extracts of the flowers pyrethrum cinerariaefolium and other species, the constituents include cinerin I, cinerin II, jasmolin I, jasmolin II, pyrethrin I and pyrethrin II Pyribencarb Methyl {2-chloro[(1E)(6-methylpyridyl= methoxyimino)ethyl]benzyl}carbamate Pyribenzoxim Benzophenone O-[2,6-bis(4,6-dimethoxypyrimidin= yloxy)benzoyl]oxime Pyributicarb O,3-tert-butylphenylmethoxypyridyl(methyl)= thiocarbamate 

 Laws of Malaysia ACT 149 152 Common names Chemical names Pyriclor 2,3,5-trichloropyridinol Pyridaben 2-tert-butyl(4-tert-butylbenzylthio)chloro= pyridazin(2H)-one Pyridaphenthion O-(1,6-dihydrooxophenylpyridazinyl) O,O-= diethyl phosphorothioate Pyridafol 6-chlorophenylpyridazinol Pyridalyl 2,6-dichloro(3,3-dichloroallyloxy)phenyl 3-[5-= (trifluoromethyl)pyridyloxy]propyl ether Pyridate 6-chlorophenylpyridazinyl S-octylthiocarbonate Pyridinitril 2,6-dichlorophenylpyridine-3,5-dicarbonitrile Pyrifenox 2’,4’-dichloro(3-pyridyl)acetophenone (E,Z)-O-= methyloxime Pyrifluquinazon 1-acetyl-1,2,3,4-tetrahydro[(3-pyridylmethyl)= amino][1,2,2,2-tetrafluoro(trifluoromethyl)ethyl]= quinazolinone Pyriftalid (RS)(4,6-dimethoxypyrimidinylthio)methyl= benzofuran-1(3H)-one Pyrimethanil N-(4,6-dimethylpyrimidinyl)aniline Pyrimidifen 5-chloro-N-[2-[4-(2-ethoxyethyl)-2,3-dimethyl= phenoxy]ethyl]ethylpyrimidinamine Pyriminobac (including its salts and esters) (EZ)(4,6-dimethoxypyrimidinyloxy)= (1-methoxyiminoethyl)benzoic acid Pyriminostrobin Methyl (E){α-[2-(2,4-dichloroanilino)(trifluoro= methyl)pyrimidinyloxy]-o-tolyl}methoxyacrylate Pyrimisulfan (RS)-2′-[(4,6-dimethoxypyrimidinyl)(hydroxy)= methyl]-1,1-difluoro-6′-(methoxymethyl)methane= sulfonanilide 

Pesticides 153 Common names Chemical names Pyrimitate Odimethylaminomethylpyrimidinyl O,O-= diethyl phosphorothioate Pyrinuron 1-(4-nitrophenyl)(3-pyridylmethyl)urea Pyriofenone (5-chloromethoxymethylpyridyl)(4,5,6-tri= methoxy-o-tolyl)methanone Pyriprole 1-(2,6-dichloro-α,α,α-trifluoro-p-tolyl)(difluoro= methylthio)[(2-pyridylmethyl)amino]pyrazole= carbonitrile Pyriproxyfen 4-phenoxyphenyl (RS)(2-pyridyloxy)propyl ether Pyrisoxazole 3-[(3R,5RS)(4-chlorophenyl)-2,3-dimethyl-1,2-= oxazolidinyl]pyridine Pyrithiobac (including its salts and esters) 2-chloro(4,6-dimethoxypyrimidinylthio)benzoic acid Pyrithiobac-sodium Sodium 2-chloro(4,6-dimethoxypyrimidinylthio)= benzoate Pyroquilon 1,2,5,6-tetrahydropyrrolo[3,2,1-ij]quinolinone Pyroxasulfone 5-(difluoromethoxy)methyl(trifluoromethyl)= pyrazolylmethyl 4,5-dihydro-5,5-dimethyl-1,2-= oxazolyl sulfone; or 3-[5-(difluoromethoxy)methyl(trifluoromethyl)= pyrazolylmethylsulfonyl]-4,5-dihydro-5,5-di= methyl-1,2-oxazole Pyroxsulam N-(5,7-dimethoxy[1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-a]pyrimidinyl)= methoxy(trifluoromethyl)pyridinesulfonamide Pyroxychlor 2-chloromethoxytrichloromethylpyridine Pyroxyfur 6-chlorotrichloromethylpyridyl furfuryl ether Quinacetol (including its salts and esters) 5-acetylquinolinol 

 Laws of Malaysia ACT 149 154 Common names Chemical names Quinalphos O,O-diethyl O-quinoxalinyl phosphorothioate Quinalphos-methyl O,O-dimethyl O-quinoxalinyl phosphorothioate Quinazamid p-benzoquinone mopnosemicarbazone Quinclorac 3,7-dichloroquinolinecarboxylic acid Quinconazole 3-(2,4-dichlorophenyl)(1H-1,2,4-traizolyl)= quinazolin-4(3H)-one Quinmerac 7-chloromethylquinolinecarboxylic acid Quinoclamine 2-aminochloro-1,4-naphtoquinone Quinofumelin 3-(4,4-difluoro-3,3-dimethyl-3,4-dihydroiso= quinolinyl)quinolone Quinonamid 2,2-dichloro-N-(3-chloro-1,4-naphthoquinonyl)= acetamide Quinothion O,O-diethyl Omethylquinolinyl phosphorothioate Quinoxyfen 5,7-dichloroquinolyl 4-fluorophenyl ether Quintiofos O-ethyl Oquinolyl phenylphosphonothioate Quintozene Pentachloronitrobenzene Quizalofop (including esters) (RS)[4-(6-chloroquinoxalinyloxy)phenoxy]= propionic acid Quizalofop-P (including esters) (R)[4-(6-chloroquinoxalinyloxy)phenoxy]= propionic acid Rabenzazole 2-(3,5-dimethylpyrazolyl)-1H-benzmidazole Red squill From Urginea (Scilla) maritima Resmethrin 5-benzylfurylmethyl(1RS,3RS;1RS,3SR)-2,2-= dimethyl(2-methylpropenyl) cyclopopane= carboxylate 

Pesticides 155 Common names Chemical names Rhodethanil 3-chloroethylaminophenyl thiocyanate Rimsulfuron 1-(4,6-dimethoxypyrimidinyl)(3-ethylsulfonyl= pyridylsulfonyl)urea Rosemary oil - Rotenone (2R,6aS,12aS)-1,2,6,6a,12,12a-hexahydro= isopropenyl-8,9-dimethoxychromeno[3,4-b]furo= [2,3-h]chromenone Ryania Extract of the plant Ryania speciosa Vahl. (Flacourtiaceae) Ryanodine (2S,3S,4R,4aS,5S,5aS,8S,9R,9aR,9bR)-2,3,4a,5a,9,= 9b-hexahydroisopropyl-2a,5,8-trimethylperhydro-= 2,5-methanobenzo[1,2]pentaleno[1,6-bc]furanyl= pyrrolecarboxylate Sabadilla A mixture of alkaloids from the seeds of Schoenocaulon officinale Saflufenacil N′-{2-chlorofluoro[1,2,3,6-tetrahydromethyl-= 2,6-dioxo(trifluoromethyl)pyrimidinyl]benzoyl}-= N-isopropyl-N-methylsulfamide Saijunmao N′-(2Ξ)-1,3-dithiolanylidenebenzohydrazide Saisentong Copper salt of 5,5′-(methylenediimino)= bis(1,3,4-thiadiazolethiol) Salicyclanilide 2-hydroxy-N-phenylbenzamide Sarolaner 1-{5′-[(5S)(3,5-dichlorofluorophenyl)= (trifluoromethyl)-4,5-dihydro-1,2-oxazolyl]-= 1H,3′H-spiro[azetidine-3,1′-[2]benzofuran]= yl}(methanesulfonyl)ethanone Schradan Octamethylpyrophosphoric tetraamide Scilliroside 3 β-( β-D-glucopyranosyloxy)-17β-(2-oxo-2H-pyran= yl)-14β-androstene-6β,8,14-triol 6-acetate 

 Laws of Malaysia ACT 149 156 Common names Chemical names Sebuthylazine N2-sec-butylchloro-N4-ethyl-1,3,5-triazine-2,4-= diamine Secbumeton N2-sec-butyl-N4-ethylmethoxy-1,3,5-triazine-2,6-= diamine Sedaxane A mixture of 2 cis-isomers 2′-[(1RS,2RS)-1,1′-bicyclo= propyl](difluoromethyl)methylpyrazole= carboxanilide and 2 trans-isomers 2′-[(1RS,2SR)-1,1′-= bicyclopropyl](difluoromethyl)methyl= pyrazolecarboxanilide Selamectin Extended von Baeyer nomenclature: (10E,14E,16E,21Z)-= (1R,4S,5′S,6R,6′S,8R,12S,13S, 20R,21R,24S)-6′- cyclohexyl-= 24-hydroxyhydroxyimino-5′,11,13,22-tetramethyl= oxo-(3,7,19-trioxa tetracyclo[15.6.1.14,8.020,24]pentacosa-= 10,14,16,22- tetraene)spiro-2′-(tetrahydropyran)-= 12-yl 2,6- dideoxyO-methyl-α-L-arabino-= hexopyranoside; or bridged fused ring systems nomenclature: (2aE,4E,8E,20Z)-(5′S,6S,6′S,7S,11R,13R,15S,17aR,= 20aR,20bS)-6′-cyclohexyl-3′,4′,5′,6,6′,7,10,11,14,15,= 17a,20,20a,20b-tetradecahydro-20b-hydroxy= hydroxyimino-5′,6,8,19-tetramethyloxospiro[11,15= -methano-2H,13H,17H-furo[4,3,2-pq][2,6]benzodioxa= cyclooctadecin-13,2′-[2H]pyran]yl 2,6-dideoxy= O-methyl-α-L-arabino-hexopyranoside Sesamex (RS){1-[2-(2-ethoxyethoxy)ethoxy]ethoxy}-1,3-= benzodioxole Sesamin 2,6-bis-(3,4-methylenedioxyphenyl)-3,7-dioxabicyclo= [3,30]-octane Sesone 2-(2,4-dichlorophenoxy) ethyl sodium sulphate Sethoxydim (±)-(EZ)(1-ethoxyiminobutyl)[2-(ethylthio)= propyl]hydroxycyclohexenone Shuangjiaancaolin (Ξ)-[O-(2,4-dimethylnitrophenyl) O-methyl= N-propanylphosphoramidothioate] 

Pesticides 157 Common names Chemical names Siduron 1-(2-methylcyclohexyl)phenylurea Silafluofen (4-ethoxyphenyl)[3-(4-fluorophenoxyphenyl)= propyl](dimethyl)silane Silthiofam N-allyl-4,5-dimethyl(trimethylsilyl)thiophene= carboxamide Simazine 6-chloro-N2,N4-diethyl-1,3,5-triazine-2,4-diamine Simeconazole (RS)(4-fluorophenyl)(1H-1,2,4-triazolyl)= (trimethylsilyl)propanol Simeton N2,N4-diethylmethoxy-1,3,5-triazine-2,4-diamine Simetryn N2,N4-diethylmethylthio-1,3,5-triazine-2,4-diamine S-methoprene Isopropyl (2E,4E)-(7S)methoxy-3,7,11-trimethyl= dodeca-2,4-dienoate S-metolachlor A mixture of (aRS,1S)chloro-6’-ethyl-N-(2-= methoxymethylethyl)aceto-o-toluidide and (aRS,1R)-= 2-chloro-6’-ethyl-N-(2-methoxymethylethyl)aceto-= o-toluidide in the proportion 80-100% to 20-0% Sodium arsenite - Sodium chlorate Sodium chlorate Sodium fluoroacetate Sodium fluoroacetate Sodium metaborate Sodium metaborate tetrahydrate Soft soap - Sophamide S-methoxymethylcarbamoylmethyl O,O-dimethyl phosphorodithioate Spinetoram Bridged fused ring systems nomenclature: a mixture of 50–90% (2R,3aR,5aR,5bS,9S,13S,14R,16aS,16bR)(6-deoxy-3= -O-ethyl-2,4-di-O-methyl-α-L-mannopyranosyloxy)-= 13-[(2R,5S,6R)(dimethylamino)tetrahydromethyl= pyranyloxy]ethyl-2,3,3a,4,5,5a,5b,6,9,10,11,= 

 Laws of Malaysia ACT 149 158 Common names Chemical names 12,13,14,16a,16b-hexadecahydromethyl-1H-as-= indaceno[3,2-d]oxacyclododecine-7,15-dione and 50–10% (2S,3aR,5aS,5bS,9S,13S,14R,16aS,16bS)= (6-deoxyO-ethyl-2,4-di-O-methyl-α-L-manno= pyranosyloxy)[(2R,5S,6R)(dimethylamino)tetra= hydromethylpyranyloxy]ethyl-2,3,3a,5a,5b,6,= 9,10,11,12,13,14,16a,16b-tetradecahydro-4,14-= dimethyl-1H-as-indaceno[3,2-d]oxacyclododecine-7,= 15-dione; or extended von Baeyer nomenclature: mixture of 50–90% (1S,2R,5R,7R,9R,10S,14R,15S,= 19S)(6-deoxyO-ethyl-2,4-di-O-methyl-α-L-= mannopyranosyloxy)[(2R,5S,6R)(dimethyl= amino)tetrahydromethylpyranyloxy]ethyl-= 14-methyloxatetracyclo[10.10.0.02,10.05,9]docos-= 11-ene-13,21-dioneand 50–10% (1S,2S,5R,7S,9S,10S,14R,15S,19S)(6-deoxyO-ethyl-= 2,4-di-O-methyl-α-L-manno pyranosyloxy)= [(2R,5S,6R)(dimethylamino)tetra hydro= methylpyranyloxy]ethyl-4,14-dimethyl= oxatetracyclo[10.10.0.02,10.05,9]docosa-3,11-diene= -13,21-dione Spinosad A mixture of (2R,3aR,5aR,5bS,9S,13S,14R,16aS,= 16bR)(6-deoxy-2,3,4-tri-O-methyl-α-L-= mannopyranosyloxy)(4-dimethylamino-2,3,4,6-= tetradeoxy-β-D-erythopyranosyloxy)ethyl-= 2,3,3a,5a,5b,6,7,9,10,11,12,13, 14,15,16a,16b-= hexadecahydromethyl-1Hoxacyclo= dodeca[b]as-indacene-7,15-dioneand(2S,3aR,5aS,= 5bS,9S,13S,14R,16aS,16bS)(6-deoxy-2,3,4-tri-O-= methyl-α-L-mannopyranosyloxy)(4-dimethyl= amino-2,3,4,6-tetradeoxy-β-D-erythopyranosyloxy)-9= -ethyl-2,3,3a,5a,5b,6,7,9,10,11,12,13,14,15,16a,16b-= hexadecahydro-4,14-dimethyl-1Hoxacyclododeca= [b]as-indacene-7,15-dione in the proportion 50-95% to 50- 5% Spirodiclofen 3-(2,4-dichlorophenyl)oxooxaspiro[4.5]decen-= 4-yl 2,2-dimethylbutyrate Spiromesifen 3-mesityloxooxaspiro[4.4]nonenyl 3,3-= dimethylbutyrate 

Pesticides 159 Common names Chemical names Spiropidion 3-(4-chloro-2,6-dimethylphenyl)methoxy-= 1-methyloxo-1,8-diazaspiro[4.5]decen-= 4-yl ethyl carbonate Spirotetramat Cis(ethoxycarbonyloxy)methoxy(2,5-xylyl)= azaspiro[4.5]decenone Spiroxamine 8-tert-butyl-1,4-dioxaspiro[4.5]decanylmethyl= (ethyl)(propyl)amine Spodoptera exigua NPV Spodoptera exigua multicapsid nuclear polyhedrosis virus Spodoptera litura NPV - Streptomyces griseoviridis - Streptomyces lydicus - Streptomycin O,2-deoxymethylamino-α-L-glucopyranosyl-= (1→2)-OdeoxyC-formyl-α-L-lyxofuranosyl-= (1→4)-N3,N3-diamidino-D-streptamine Strychnine Strychnidinone Sulcofuron (including its salts) 5-chloro[4-chloro[3-(3,4-dichlorophenyl)= ureido]phenoxy]benzenesulfonic acid Sulcotrione 2-(2-chloromesylbenzoyl)cyclohexane-1,3-dione Sulfallate 2-chloroally diethyldithiocarbamate Sulfanamide 4-aminobenzenesulphonamide Sulfaquinoxaline 4-amino-Nquinoxalinyl; or N-(2-Quinoxalinyl)sulfanilamide Sulfosulfuron 1-(4,6-dimethoxypyrimidinyl)[2-ethanesulfonyl= -imidazo[1,2-a]pyridine) sulfonyl]urea Sulfentrazone 2',4'-dichloro-5'-(4-difluoromethyl-4,5-dihydro= methyloxo-1H-1,2,4-triazolyl)= methanesulfonanilide 

 Laws of Malaysia ACT 149 160 Common names Chemical names Sulfluramid N-ethylperfluoro-octanesulfonamide Sulfometuron (including esters) 2-[3-(4,6-dimethylpyrimidinyl)ureidosulfonyl]= benzoic acid Sulfotep O,O,O',O'-tetraethyl dithiopyrophosphate Sulfoxaflor [methyl(oxo){1-[6-(trifluoromethyl)pyridyl]ethyl}-= λ6-sulfanylidene]cyanamide Sulfoxide 2-(1,3-benzodioxolyl)ethyl octyl sulfoxide Sulfoxime (RS)-[1-(4-chlorophenyl)(methylthio)propanone] (EZ)-O-(3-phenoxybenzyl)oxime Sulfur Sulfur Sulglycapin Azepanylcarbonymethyl methylsulfamate Sulphuryl fluoride Sulfuryl fluoride Sulprofos O-ethyl O-4(methylthio)phenyl S-propyl phosphorodithioate Sultropen 2,4-dinitrophenyl pentyl sulfone Swep Methyl 3,4-dichlorocarbanilate Syngrapha falcifera NPV - 2,4,5-T (including its salts and esters) (2,4,5-trichlorophenoxy)acetic acid Talaromyces flavus - Tau-fluvalinate (RS)-α-cyanophenoxybenzyl N-(2-chloro-α,α,α-= trifluoro-p-tolyl)-D-valinate Tazimcarb N-methyl(3,5,5-trimethyloxo-1,3-thiazolidin= ylideneamino-oxy)formamide 2,4,5-TB 4-(2,4,5-trichlorophenoxy)butyric acid 

Pesticides 161 Common names Chemical names 2,3,6-TBA (including its salts) 2,3,6-trichlorobenzoic acid TCA (including its salts and esters) Trichloroacetic acid TCMTB 2-(thiocyanatomethylthio)-1,3-benzothiazole TDE 1,1-dichloro-2,2-bis(4-chlorophenyl)ethane Tebuconazole (RS)p-chlorophenyl-4,4-dimethyl(1H-1,2,4-= triazolylmethyl)pentanol Tebufenozide N-tert-butyl-N'-(4-ethylbenzoyl)-3,5-dimethyl= benzohydrazide Tebufenpyrad N-(4-tert-butylbenzyl)chloroethylmethyl= pyrazolecarboxamide Tebufloquin 6-tert-butylfluoro-2,3-dimethylquinolyl acetate Tebupirimfos (RS)-[O-(2-tert-butylpyrimidinyl)O-ethyl O-isopropyl= phosphorothioate] Tebutam N-benzyl-N-isopropylpivalamide Tebuthiuron 1-(5-tert-butyl-1,3,4-thiadiazolyl)1,3-dimethylurea Tecloftalam 3,4,5,6-tetrachloro-N-(2,3-dichlorophenyl)phthalamic acid Tecnazene 1,2,4,5-tetrachloronitrobenzene Tecoram N',N',N',N'-tetramethyl-N,N'-ethylenedi(thiuram disulfide) Teflubenzuron 1-(3,5-dichloro-2,4-difluorophenyl)(2,6-difluoro= benzoyl)urea Tefluthrin 2,3,5,6-tetrafluoromethylbenzyl (Z)-(1RS,3RS)= (2-chloro-3,3,3-trifluoropropenyl)-2,2-= dimethylcyclopropanecarboxylate Tefuryltrione 2-{2-chloromesyl[(RS)-tetrahydrofuryl= methoxymethyl]benzoyl}cyclohexane-1,3-dione 

 Laws of Malaysia ACT 149 162 Common names Chemical names Tembotrione 2-{2-chloromesyl[(2,2,2-trifluoroethoxy)methyl]= benzoyl}cyclohexane-1,3-dione Temephos O,O,O',O'-tetramethyl O,O'-thiodi-p-phenylene bis(phosphorothioate) TEPP Tetraethyl pyrophosphate Tepraloxidim (5RS){(EZ)[(2E)chloroallyloxyimino]= propyl}hydroxyperhydropyranylcyclohex= enone Terallethrin (RS)allylmethyloxocyclopentenyl-2,2,3,3-= tramethylcyclopropanecarboxylate Terbacil 3-tert-butylchloromethyluracil Terbucarb 2,6-di-tert-butyl-p-tolyl methylcarbamate Terbuchlor N-butoxymethyl-6'-tert-butylchloroacet-o-toluidide Terbufos S-tert-butylthiomethyl O,O-diethylphosphorodithioate Terbumeton N2-tert-butyl-N4-ethylmethoxy-1,3,5-triazine-2,4-= diamine Terbuthylazine N2-tert-butylchloro-N4-ethyl-1,3,5-triazine-2,4-= diamine Terbutol 2,6-di-tert-butylmethylphenyl N-methylcarbamate Terbutryn Tetflupyrolimet N2-tert-butyl-N4-ethylmethylthio-1,3,5-triazine-= 2,4-diamine (3S,4S)-2’-fluoromethyloxo(α,α,α-trifluoro-m- tolyl)pyrrolidinecarboxanilide Tetrachloroethane 1,1,2,2-tetrachloroethane Tetrachlorvinphos (Z)chloro(2,4,5-trichlorophenyl)vinyl dimethyl phosphate Tetraconazole (RS)(2,4-dichlorophenyl)(1H-1,2,4-triazolyl)= propyl 1,1,2,2-tetrafluoroethyl ether 

Pesticides 163 Common names Chemical names Tetradifon 4-chlorophenyl 2,4,5-trichlorophenyl sulfone Tetrafluron 1,1-dimethyl[3-(1,1,2,2-tetrafluoroethoxy)phenyl]= urea Tetramethrin Cyclohexene-1,2-dicarboximidomethyl (1RS,3RS;= 1RS,3SR)-2,2-dimethyl(2-methylpropenyl)= cyclopropanecarboxylate Tetramethrin[(1R)-isomers] or d-tetramethrin Cyclohexene-1,2-dicarboximidomethyl (1R,3R;1R,= 3S)-2,2-dimethyl(2-methylpropenyl)cyclopropa= necarboxylate Tetramethylfluthrin 2,3,5,6-tetrafluoro(methoxymethyl)benzyl 2,2,3,3-= tetramethylcyclopropanecarboxylate Tetraniliprole 1-(3-chloropyridyl)-4′-cyano-2′-methyl-6′-= methylcarbamoyl{[5-(trifluoromethyl)-2H-tetrazol-= 2-yl]methyl}pyrazolecarboxanilide Tetrasul 4-chlorophenyl 2,4,5-trichlorophenyl sulphide Thallium sulfate Thallium(I) sulfate; thallium(1+) sulfate; or thallous sulfate Thenylchlor 2-chloro-N-(3-methoxythenyl)-2',6'-dimethyl= acetanilide Theta-cypermethrin 1:1 mixture of the two enantiomers (R)-α-cyano= phenoxybenzyl (1S,3R)(2,2-dichlorovinyl)-2,2-= dimethylcyclopropanecarboxylate and (S)-α-cyano= phenoxybenzyl (1R,3S)(2,2-dichlorovinyl)-2,2-= dimethylcyclopropanecarboxylate; or 1:1 mixture of the two enantiomers (R)-α-cyano= phenoxybenzyl (1S)-trans(2,2-dichlorovinyl)-2,2-= dimethylcyclopropanecarboxylate and (S)-α-cyano= phenoxybenzyl (1R)-trans(2,2-dichlorovinyl)-2,2-= dimethylcyclopropanecarboxylate Thiabendazole 2-(thiazolyl)benzimidazole 

 Laws of Malaysia ACT 149 164 Common names Chemical names Thiacloprid (Z)(6-chloropyridylmethyl)-1,3-thiazolidin= ylidenecyanamide Thiadifluor 3-(4-chlorophenyl)-N2-methyl-N4,N5- bis(trifluoro= methyl)-1,3-thiazolidine-2,4,5-triylidenetriamine Thiamethoxam 3-(2-chloro-1,3-thiazolylmethyl)methyl-1,3,5-= oxadiazinanylidene(nitro)amine Thiazafluron 1,3-dimethyl(5-trifluoromethyl-1,3,4-thiadiazol= yl)urea Thiazopyr Methyl 2-difluoromethyl(4,5-dihydro-1,3-thiazol= yl)isobutyltrifluoromethylnicotinate Thicrofos S-(6-chloro-3,4-dihydro-2Hbenzothi-inyl) O,O-= diethyl phosphorothioate Thicyofen (±)chloroethylsulfinylthiophene-2,4-dicarbo= nitrile Thidiazimin (Z)(6,7-dihydro-6,6-dimethyl-3H,5H-pyrrolo[2,1-c]= [1,2,4]thiadiazolylideneamino)fluoro(prop= ynyl)-2H-1,4-benzoxazin-3(4H)-one Thidiazuron 1-phenyl(1,2,3-thiadiazolyl)urea Thiencarbazone 4-[(4,5-dihydromethoxymethyloxo-1H-1,2,4-= triazolyl)carbonylsulfamoyl]methylthiophene= carboxylic acid Thifensulfuron (including esters) 3-(4-methoxymethyl-1,3,5-triazinylcarbamoyl= sulfamoyl)thiophencarboxylic acid Thifluzamide 2',6'-dibromomethyl-4'-trifluoromethoxy= trifluoromethyl-1,3-thiazolecarboxanilide Thiobencarb Schlorobenzyl diethylthiocarbamate Thiocarboxime 3-[1-(methylcarbamoyloxyimino)ethylthio]= propionitrile Thiochlorfenphim N-(4-chlorophenylthiomethyl)phthalimide 

Pesticides 165 Common names Chemical names Thiocyclam (including its salts) N,N-dimethyl-1,2,3-trithianylamine Thiodicarb 3,7,9,13-tetramethyl-5,11-dioxa-2,8,14-trithia-= 4,7,9,12-tetra-azapentadeca-3,12-diene-6,10-dione Thiofanox 1-(2,2-dimethylmethylthiomethylpropylidene= amino-oxy)-N-methylformamide Thiometon Sethylthioethyl O,O-dimethyl phosphorodithioate Thionazin O,O-diethyl O-pyrazinyl phosphorothioate Thiophanate Diethyl 4,4'-(O-phenylene)bis(3-thioallophanate) Thiophanate-methyl Dimethyl 4,4'-(O-phenylene)bis(3-thioallophanate) Thioquinox 1,3-dithiolo[4,5-b] quinoxalinethione Thiosultap (including its salts and esters) Dihydrogen S,S′-[2-(dimethylamino)trimethylene]= di(thiosulfate) Thiram Tetramethylthiuram disulfide Thuringiensin 2R,3S,4S,5S){[(2R,3R,4R,5S,6R){[(2R,3S,4R,= 5R)(6-amino-9H-purinyl)-3,4-= dihydroxytetrahydrofuranyl]methoxy}-3,4-= dihydroxy(hydroxymethyl)tetrahydro-2H-pyran= yl]oxy}-3,5-dihydroxy(phosphonooxy)hexanedioic acid Tiadinil Dihydrogen S,S′-[2-(dimethylamino)trimethylene]= di(thiosulfate) Tiafenacil Methyl 3-((2RS){2-chlorofluoro[1,2,3,6-tetra= hydromethyl-2,6-dioxo(trifluoromethyl)= pyrimidin-1(6H)-yl]phenylthio}propionamido)= propionate Tiocarbazil S-benzyl di-sec-butylthiocarbamate Tioclorim 6-chloro(methylthio)pyrimidine-2,4-diamine Tioxazafen 3-phenyl(2-thienyl)-1,2,4-oxadiazole 

 Laws of Malaysia ACT 149 166 Common names Chemical names Tioxymid 5-isothiocyanatomethoxy-N,N-dimethyl-m-toluamide Tolclofos-methyl O,2,6-dichloro-p-tolyl-O,O-dimethyl phosphorothioate Tolfenpyrad 4-chloroethylmethyl-N-[4-(p-tolyloxy)benzyl]= pyrazolecarboxamide Tolprocarb 2,2,2-trifluoroethyl (S)-[2-methyl(p-toluoylamino= methyl)propyl]carbamate Tolpyralate (RS){1-ethyl[4-mesyl(2-methoxyethoxy)-o-= toluoyl]pyrazolyloxy}ethyl methyl carbonate Tolylfluanid 1,1-dichloro-N-[(dimethylamino)sulfonyl]fluoro-N-= (4-methylphenyl)methanesulfenamide Tolylmercuric acetate Tolylmercury(II) acetate; tolylmercury(2+) acetate; or tolylmercuric acetate Topramezone [3-(4,5-dihydro-1,2-oxazolyl)mesyl-o-tolyl](5-= hydroxymethyl-1H-pyrazol-4yl)methanone Toxaphene (see also campheclor) A reaction mixture of chlorinated camphenes containing 67–69% chlorine Tralkoxydim 2-[1-(ethoxyimino)propyl]hydroxymesitylcyclo= hexenone Tralocythrin (RS)-α-cyanophenoxybenzyl (1RS,3RS;1RS,3SR)= [(RS)-1,2-dibromo-2,2-dichloroethyl]-2,2-dimethyl= cyclopropanecarboxyate; or (RS)-α-cyanophenoxybenzyl (1RS)-cis-trans= [(RS)-1,2-dibromo-2,2-dichloroethyl]-2,2-dimethyl= cyclopropanecarboxyate Tralomethrin (S)-α-cyanophenoxybenzyl(1R,3S)1-2,2-dimethyl-= 3[(RS)-1,2,2,2-tetrabromoethyl]cyclopropane= carboxylate 

Pesticides 167 Common names Chemical names Tralopyril 4-bromo(4-chlorophenyl)(trifluoromethyl)-1H-= pyrrolecarbonitrile Transfluthrin 2, 3,5, 6-tetrafluorobenzyl(1R,3S)(2,2-dichloro= vinyl) 2,2-dimethylcyclopanecarboxylate Transpermethrin 3-phenoxybenzyl (1RS)-trans(2,2-dichlorovinyl)-= 2,2-dimethylcyclopropanecarboxylate Trichoderma harzianum isolate T Trichoderma harzianum Rifai isolate TH 35 and TH 315 - Trichoderma harzianum isolate T Trichoderma harzianum and Trichoderma viride - Trichoderma polysporum and Trichoderma harzianum - Trichoderma stromaticum - Trichoderma virens - Trichoderma viride - Triadimefon 1-(4-chlorophenoxy)-3,3-dimethyl(1H-1,2,4-triazol= yl)butanone Triadimenol (1RS,2RS;1RS,2SR)(4-chlorophenoxy)-3,3-= dimethyl(1H-1,2,4-triazolyl)butanol Tri-allate S-2,3,3-trichloroallyl diisopropyl(thiocarbamate) Triafamone 2′-[(4,6-dimethoxy-1,3,5-triazinyl)carbonyl]-1,1,6′-= trifluoro-N-methylmethanesulfonanilide Triamiphos Paminophenyl-1H-1,2,4-triazolyl-N,N,N′,N′-= tetramethylphosphonic diamide 

 Laws of Malaysia ACT 149 168 Common names Chemical names Triapenthenol (E)-(RS)cyclohexyl-4,4-dimethyl(1H-1,2,4-= triazolyl)pentenol Triarathene 5-(4-chlorophenyl)-2,3-diphenylthiophene Triarimol (RS)-2,4-dichloro-α-(pyrimidinyl)benzhydryl alcohol Triasulfuron 1-[2-(2-chloroethoxy)phenylsulfonyl](4-methoxy= methyl-1,3,5-triazinyl)urea Triazamate Ethyl (3-tert-butyldimethylcarbamoyl-1H-1,2,4-= triazolylthio)acetate Triazbutil 4-butyl-4H-1,2,4-triazole Triaziflam (RS)-N-[2-(3,5-dimethylphenoxy)methylethyl]= (1-fluoromethylethyl)-1,3,5-triazine-2,4-diamine Triazophos O,O-diethyl Ophenyl-1H,1,2,4-triazolyl phosphorothioate Triazoxide 7-chloroimidazolyl-1.2,4-benzotriazine 1-oxide Tribenuron (including esters) 2-[4-methoxymethyl-1,3,5-triazinyl(methyl)= carbamoylsulfamoyl]benzoic acid Tribufos S,S,S-tributyl phosphorotrithioate Tricamba 3,5,6-trichloro-o-anisic acid Trichlamide (RS)-N-(1-butoxy-2,2,2-trichloroethyl) salicylamide Trichlorfon Dimethyl 2,2,2-trichlorohydroxyethylphosphonate Trichloronat (RS)-(O-ethyl-O,2,4,5-trichlorophenyl ethylphosphonothioate Triclopyr (including its salts and esters) 3,5,6-trichloropyridyloxyacetic acid Triclopyricarb Methyl N-methoxy(3,5,6-trichloropyridyloxy= methyl)carbanilate 

Pesticides 169 Common names Chemical names Tricyclazole 5-methyl-1,2,4-triazolo[3,4-b][1,3]benzothiazole Tridemorph 2,6-dimethyltridecylmorpholine Tridiphane (RS)(3,5-dichlorophenyl)(2,2,2-trichloroethyl)= oxirane Trietazine 6-chloro-N2,N2,N4-triethyl-1,3,5-triazine-2,4-diamine Trifenmorph 4-tritylmorpholine Trifenofos O-ethyl S-propyl O-2,4,6-trichlorophenyl phosphorothioate Trifloxystrobin Methyl (E)-methoxyimino-{(E)-α-[1-(α,α,α-trifluoro-= m-tolyl)ethylideneaminooxy]-o-tolyl}acetate Trifloxysulfuron (including its salts) 1-(4,6-dimethoxypyrimidinyl)[3-(2,2,2-trifluo= roethoxy)pyridylsulfonyl]urea Trifludimoxazin 1,5-dimethylthioxo(2,2,7-trifluoro-3,4-dihydro-= 3-oxopropynyl-2H-1,4-benzoxazinyl)-1,3,5-= triazinane-2,4-dione Triflumezopyrim 3,4-dihydro-2,4-dioxo(pyrimidinylmethyl)= (α,α,α-trifluoro-m-tolyl)-2H-pyrido[1,2-a]pyrimidin= iumide Triflumizole (E)chloro-α,α,α-trifluoro-N-(1-imidazolyl= propoxyethylidene)-o-toluidine Triflumuron 1-(2-chlorobenzoyl)(4-trifluoromethoxyphenyl) urea Trifluralin α,α,α-trifluoro-2,6-dinitro-N,N-dipropyl-p-toluidine Triflusulfuron (including esters) 2-[4-dimethylamino(2,2,2-trifluoroethoxy)-1,3,5-= triazinylcarbamoylsulfamoyl]-m-toluic acid Trifop (including esters) (RS)[4-(α,α,α-trifluoro-p-tolyloxy)phenoxy]= propionic acid 

 Laws of Malaysia ACT 149 170 Common names Chemical names Trifopsime Acetone (R)-O-[2-[4-(α,α,α-trifluoro-p-tolyloxy)= phenoxy]propionyl]oxime Triforine N,N’-[piperazine-1,4-diylbis[(trichloromethyl) methylene]]diformamide Trihydroxytriazine 1,3,5-triazine-2,4,6-triol Trimethacarb A reaction product comprising of 3,4,5-trimethylphenyl methylcarbamate (I) and 2,3,5-trimethylphenyl methylcarbamate(II) in a ratio between 3.5:1 and 5.0:1 m/m Trimeturon 3-(4-chlorophenyl)-1,1,2-trimethylisourea Trinexapac (including its salts and esters) (RS)cyclopropyl(hydroxy)methylene-3,5-dioxo= cyclohexanecarboxylic acid Tripropindan 1-(6-isopropyl-1,1,4-trimethylindanyl)propanone Tritac 1-(2,3,6-trichlorobenzyloxy)propanol Triticonazole (±)-(E)-5(4-chlorobenzylidene)-2,2-dimethyl(1H-= 1,2,4-triazolylmethyl)cyclopentanol Tritosulfuron 1-[4-methoxy(trifluoromethyl)-1,3,5-triazinyl]= [2-(trifluoromethyl)benzenesulfonyl]urea Trypsin modulating ostatic factor or TMOF including all type of host organisms - Tyclopyrazoflor N-[3-chloro(pyridinyl)-1H-pyrazolyl]-= N-ethyl[(3,3,3-trifluoropropyl)= sulfanyl]propanamide Uniconazole (E)-(RS)(4-chlorophenyl)-4,4-dimethyl(1H-= 1,2,4-triazolyl)pentenol Uniconazole-P (E)-(S)(4-chlorophenyl)-4,4-dimethyl(1H-= 1,2,4-triazolyl)pentenol 

Pesticides 171 Common names Chemical names Urbacide Bis(dimethylthiocarbamoylthio)methylarsine; 1-{[(dimethylthiocarbamoylsulfanyl)methylarsanyl]= sulfanyl}-N,N-dimethylmethanethioamide; or methylarsinediyl bis(dimethyldithiocarbamate) Vairimorpha necatrix - Valerate 3-phenoxybenzyl (2RS)(4-chlorophenyl)methyl= butyrate Validamycin (1R,2R,3S,4S,6R)-2,3-dihydroxyhydroxymethyl-4= -[(1S,4R,5S,6S)-4,5,6-trihydroxyhydroxymethyl= cyclohexenylamino]cyclohexyl β-D-glucopyranoside Valifenalate Methyl N-(isopropoxycarbonyl)-L-valyl-(3RS)(4-= chlorophenyl)-β-alaninate Valone 2-isovalerylindan-1,3-dione; or 2-(3-methylbutanoyl)-1H-indene-1,3(2H)-dione Vamidothion O,O-dimethyl S-2(1-methylcarbamoylethythio)ethyl phosphorothioate Vaniliprole (E)(2,6-dichloro-α,α,α-trifluoro-p-tolyl)(4-= hydroxymethoxybenzylideneamino)trifluoro= methylthiopyrazolecarbonitrile Vernolate S-propyl dipropylthiocarbamate Verticillium lecanii - Vinclozolin (RS)(3,5-dichlorophenyl)methylvinyl-1,3-= oxazolidine-2,4-dione Vitamine D3 (3β,5Z,7E)-9,10-secocholesta-5,7,10(19)-trienol Warfarin (RS)hydroxy(3-oxophenylbutyl)coumarin Xanthomonas campestris pv. Poannua - 

 Laws of Malaysia ACT 149 172 Common names Chemical names Xiaochongliulin O-(2,4-dichloronitrophenyl) O,O-diethyl phosphorothioate Xinjunan (including its salts and esters) N1-octyl-N2-[2-(octylamino)ethyl]ethane-1,2-= diamine XMC 3,5-xylyl methylcarbamate Xylachlor 2-chloro-N-isopropylacet-2',3'-xylidide Xyxylcarb 3,4-xylyl methylcarbamate Yishijing N′-benzoyl-N-tert-butylbenzohydrazide Zarilamid (RS)chloro-N-[cyano(ethoxy)methyl]benzamide Zengxiaoan N-(2-ethylhexyl)-8,9,10-trinorbornene-2,3-= dicarboximide Zeta-cypermethrin A mixture of the stereoisomers (S)-α-cyanophenoxy= benzyl (1RS,3RS;1RS,3SR)(2,2-dichlorovinyl)= -2,2-dimethylcyclopropanecarboxylate where the ratio of the (S);(1RS,3RS) isomeric pair to the (S);(1RS,3SR) isomeric pair lies in the ratio range 45-55 to 55-45 respectively Zinc phosphide Trizinc diphosphide Zinc pyrithione 2-pyridinethioloxide, zinc salt; or bis (1-hydroxy-1H-pyridinethionato-O,S) zinc Zinc thiazole 5-amino-1,3,4-thiadiazolethiol zinc salt (2:1) Zineb Zinc ethylenebis(dithiocarbamate) Ziram Zinc bis(dimethyldithiocarbamate) Zolaprofos O-ethyl Smethylisoxazolylmethyl S-propyl phosphorodithioate Zoxamide (RS)-3,5-dichloro-N-(3-chloroethylmethyl= oxopropyl)-p-toluamide 

Pesticides 173 Common names Chemical names Zuomihuanglong Methyl 5-{[(4,6-dimethylpyrimidinyl)carba= moyl]sulfamoyl}(pyridinyl)-1H-pyrazole-= 4-carboxylate ZXI 8901 3-(4-bromophenoxy)-α-cyanobenzyl 2-[4-(difluoro= methoxy)phenyl]methylbutanoate - N-acethylthiazolidinecarboxylic acid (acetoxymercuric)ethanol allylmethoxyphenol aminotert-butylethylthio-1,2,4-triazin-5(4H)-one aminopyridine amino-3,5-xylyl methylcarbamate azido-N2-tert-butyl-N4-ethyl-1,3,5-triazine-2,4-diamine - 1,2-benzisothiazolinone benzylaminopurine - S-benzyl O-ethyl phenylphosphorothioate - Bis(2-chloroethyl)ether - Bis(4-chlorophenoxy)methane - 1,1-bis(4-chlorophenyl)ethoxyethanol - 1,1-bis(4-chlorophenyl)nitropropane with 1,1-bis= (4-chlorophenyl)nitrobutane - Bis(diethoxyphosphinothioyl)disulfide with bis(di-= isopropoxyphosphinothioyl)disulfide - Bis-O,O-di-(n-propyl) phosphorothionic anhydride 

 Laws of Malaysia ACT 149 174 Common names Chemical names - ((2S)-1,1-bis(4-fluorophenyl)propanyl N-= {[3-(acetyloxy)methoxypyridinyl]= carbonyl}-L-alalinate - Bis(8-hydroxyquinolinium) sulfate - N2,N4-bis(3-methoxypropyl)methylthio l, 3,5-= triazine-2,4-diamine - Bis(methylmercuric) sulfate - S,S-bis(1-methylpropyl) phosphorodithioate - (1R,2R,4R)-bornyl thiocyanatoacetate bromochloroethane bromochloropropene (2-butoxyethoxy)ethyl piperonylate (2-butoxyethoxy)ethyl thiocyanate - Butoxy(polypropylene glycol) - (RS) sec-butylamine - N-butyl-1,2-benzisothiazolinone tert-butylcyano-N-methylpyrazolecarboxamide tert-butylisopropylisothiazolo [3,4-d] pyrimidin-4= (5H)-one tert-butylisopropyl[1,2]oxazolo [5,4-d] pyrimidin= -4 (5H)-one tert-butylisopropyl[1,2]thiazolo [3,4-d] pyrimidin= -4 (5H)-one (4-tert-butylphenoxy)methylethyl 2-chloroethyl sulphite 

Pesticides 175 Common names Chemical names tert-butylpropyl-1,2-oxazolo[5,4-d]pyrimidin-= 4(5H)-one - Cadmium calcium copper zinc chromate sulfate - Calcium arsenate; calcium orthoarsenate; tricalcium arsenate; or tricalcium orthoarsenate - Calcium cyanide - Calcium polysulfide - (E)chlorobenzoyl(2,3-dihydrophenyl-1,3-thiazol= ylidene) acetonitrile chloro-N-(2-cyanoethyl)acetamide chloromethylisothiazolinone - O,2-chloromethylthiophenyl O-methylethyl phos= phoramidothioate - O,3-chloronitrophenyl O,O-dimethylphosphorothioate chloronitropropane (4-chlorophenoxy)(imidazolyl)-3,3-= dimethylbutanone - (2RS,3SR)[3-(2-chlorophenyl)-2,3-epoxyl(4-= fluorophenyl)propyl]-1H-1,2,4-triazole (4-chlorophenyl)(2,6-dichlorobenzoyl)urea chlorophenyl-1,2-dithiolone (4-chlorophenyl)methylrhodanine 

 Laws of Malaysia ACT 149 176 Common names Chemical names chlorophenyl phenyl sulfone - S-[[[4-chlorophenyl]thio]methyl]O,O-dimethyl phosphorodithioate - (±)-cis(4-chlorophenyl)(1H-1,2,4-triazolyl)= cycloheptanol chlorovinyl diethyl phosphate - (RS)- α-[N-(3-chloro-2,6-xylyl)methoxyacetamido]= -γ-butyrolacetone (4-chloro-3,5-xylyloxy)ethanol - Copper acetoarsenite; copper(II) acetoarsenite; or (acetato)trimetaarsenitodicopper - Copper arsenate; copper orthoarsenate; tricopper arsenate; or tricopper orthoarsenate - Copper bis(3-phenylsalicylate) - Copper hydroxide - Copper naphthenate - Copper oxychloride; or dicopper chloride trihydroxide (approximate composition) - Copper sulfate - Copper sulfate, basic - Copper zinc chromate 

Pesticides 177 Common names Chemical names - m-cumenyl methylcarbamate - Cuprous oxide; or copper (I) oxide - [(α-cyanofluorophenoxy)3(chlorophenyl)= chlorovinyl]-2,2-dimethyl-cyclopropanecarboxylate (2-cyanomethoxyiminoatyl)ethylurea - (S)-α-cyanophenoxybenzyl (1R,3S)-[(RS)-1,2-= dibromo-2,2-dichloroethyl]-2,2-dimethylcyclo= propanecarboxylate [[2-(cyclopropylcarbonyl)phenyl]sulfamoyl]= (4,6-dimethoxypyrimidinyl)urea - n-decanol; or decanol - N,N-diallyl-2,2-dichloroacetamide - Diammonium ethylenebis(dithiocarbamate) - 1,2-dibromochloropropane (dichloroacetyl)oxaazaspiro[4,5]decane - 1,1-dichloro-2,2-bis(4-ethylphenyl)ethane - O-2,5-dichloroiodophenyl O-ethyl ethylphosphono= thioate - 1,1-dichloronitroethane - 4,5-dichloron-octylisothiazolinone - 2,4-dichlorophenyl benzenesulfonate - 2,4-dichlorophenyl-3'-methoxy-4'nitrophenyl ether 

 Laws of Malaysia ACT 149 178 Common names Chemical names - (RS)-N-(3,5-dichlorophenyl)(methoxymethyl)= succinimide - N-3,5-dichlorophenylsuccinimide - 1,2-dichloropropane - 1,2-dichloropropane with 1,3-dichloropropane - 1,3-dichloro-1,1,3,3-tetrafluoropropane-2,2-diol - 3,4-dichlorotetrahydrothiophene 1,1-dioxide - 2,6-dichloro-N-(4-trifluoromethylbenzyl)benzamide - Trans(2,2-dichlorovinyl)-2,2-dimethylcyclopropane= carboxylate - 2,2-dichlorovinyl 2-ethylsulphinylethyl methylphosphate - N2-diethoxyphosphinothioyl-N2-ethyl-N1,N1-dipropyl= glycinamide - O,O-diethyl Omethyloxo-2H-chromenyl phosphorothioate - O,O-diethyl Omethylpropylpyrimidinyl phosphorothioate - Diethyl 5-methylpyrazolyl phosphate - O,O-diethyl naphthalene-1,8-dicarboximido-= oxyphosphonothioate - N-2,3-dihydromethyl-1,3-thiazolylidene-2,4-= xylidine - 2,3-dihydrophenyl-1,4-dithi-ine 1,1,4,4-tetraoxide - O,O-diisopropyl S-ethylsulphinylmethyl phosphoro= thiolothionate 

Pesticides 179 Common names Chemical names - 2,6-diisopropylnaphthalene - Dimethylarsinic acid - Dimethyl 1,3-di(carbomethoxy)propenyl phosphate (4,5-dimethyl3-dioxolanyl)phenyl methyl= carbamate - Dimethyl 4-methylthiophenyl phosphate - Dimethyl phthalate - Dimethyl(4-piperidinocarbonyloxy-2,5-xylyl) sulpho= nium toluenesulphonate - Odimethylsulfamoylphenyl O,O-diethyl phosphoro= thioate - Dipropyl pyridine-2,5-dicarboxylate - Disodium octaborate, hydrous or anhydrous Disodium tetraborate, see borax - Dithio-2,2’-bis(benzmethylamide) (1,3-dithiolanyl)phenyl dimethylcarbamate - (Z)-dodecenol - Ethyl 3-[acetyl(butyl)amino]propanoate - Ethylene dibromide; or 1,2-dibromoethane - Ethylene dichloride; or 1,2-dichloroethane - Ethylene oxide; or 

 Laws of Malaysia ACT 149 180 Common names Chemical names oxirane - Ethyl formate - Ethyl hexanediol; or 2-ethylhexane-1,3-diol - (3-ethoxypropyl)mercury bromide; (3-ethoxypropyl)mercury(II) bromide; (3-ethoxypropyl)mercury(2+) bromide; or (3-ethoxypropyl)mercuric bromide - Ethyl 2-chloro[2-chlorofluoro(4-difluoro= methyl-4,5-dihydromethyloxo-1H-1,2,4-triazol-= 1-yl)phenyl]propionate - Ethyl O-[2-chloro(2-chloro-α,α,α-trifluoro-p-= tolyloxy)benzoyl]-L-lactate - O-ethyl2,4-dichlorophenyl thionobenzene= phosphonate - Ethylmercury acetate; ethylmercury(II) acetate; ethylmercury(2+) acetate; or ethylmercuric acetate - Ethylmercury bromide; ethylmercury(II) bromide; ethylmercury(2+) bromide; or ethylmercuric bromide - Ethylmercury chloride; ethylmercury(II) chloride; ethylmercury(2+) chloride; or ethylmercuric chloride 

Pesticides 181 Common names Chemical names - Ethylmercury 2,3-dihydroxypropyl mercaptide; or (RS)(ethylmercurythio)propane-1,2-diol - N-(ethylmercury)-p-toluenesulfonanilide ethylmethyl-1,3-dioxanyl 2-methylbenzyl ether - S-(2-ethylsulphiny)isopropyl dimethyl phosphorothio= late - Hexachlorobenzene - A mixture of 1,1,1,7,7,7-hexafluoromethyl-2,6-= bis(trifluoromethyl)heptene-2,6 diol(I) and 1,1,1,7,7,7- hexafluoromethylene-2,6-bis(trifluoromethyl)-2,6- heptanediol(II) - 1,5a,6,9,9a,9b, hexahydro-4a (4H)-dibenzofuran= carboxaldehyde - Hexahydro-1,3,5,-tris(2-hydroxyethyl) triazine - Hydrogen cyanide (including its salts) hydroxyethyl-n-octyl sulphide - Hydroxymercuri-o-nitrophenol - N-hydroxymethyl chloroacetamide hydroxy-1H-pyridinethione hydroxyquinoline sulfate; or bis(8-hydroxyquinolinium) sulfate imidazolidone - Isobornyl thiocyanoacetate isopropylmethylpyrazolyl dimethylcarbamate 

 Laws of Malaysia ACT 149 182 Common names Chemical names isovalerylindan-1,3-dione - Lead arsenate; or diplumbic hydrogen arsenate - d-limonene; (R)isopropenylmethylcyclohexene; or p-mentha-1,8-diene - Magnesium phosphide - p-menthanediol - Mercuric acetate - Mercuric naphthenate - Mercuric oleate - Mercuric pentanedione - Mercuric phenate - Mercurous chloride; dimercury(I) chloride; or dimercury(1+) chloride - Mercury(II) chloride; mercury(2+) chloride; or mercuric chloride - Mercury(II) oxide; mercury(2+) oxide; or mercuric oxide - Mesyl(methyl)carbomoylmethylaminomethyl phos= phonic acid 

Pesticides 183 Common names Chemical names - Methanesulfonyl fluoride - (2-methoxyethyl)mercury(II) acetate - (2-methoxyethyl)mercury(II) chloride - (2-methoxyethyl)mercury(II) silicate methylcyclohexenone - S-methyl N-(carbamoyloxy)thioacetimidate - Methyl (EZ)[5-(2-chloro-α,α,α-trifluoro-p-tolyl= oxy)nitrophenyl]methoxyethylideneamino-oxy= acetate - Methylene bisthiocyanate - 1,1'-methylenedi(thiosemicarbazide) methylisothiazolinone - Methylmercury acetate - Methylmercury 2,3-dihydroxypropyl mercaptide - Methylmercury hydroxide - Methylmercury nitrite - Methylmercury propionate - Methylmercury 8-quinolinate methylphenylpyrazolyl-dimethylcarbamate - [2-[methyl(propynyl)amino]phenyl] N-methyl= carbamate 

 Laws of Malaysia ACT 149 184 Common names Chemical names methyl(propynyl)amino-3,5-xylyl methylcarba= mate - Methyl 2,3,5,6-tetrachloro-N-methoxy-N-methyltere= phthalamate (methylthio)-ethylideneamino carbamate methylthioxo-1,3,5-thiadiazinanylacetic acid - Nickel bis(dimethyldithiocarbamate) - Nnitrophenylitaconimide - 2,3,4,4,5,5,6,6-octachlorocyclohexenone - 1,4,4a,5a,6,9,9a,9b-octahydrodibenzofuran-4a-= carbaldehyde n-octylisothiazolinone (octylthio)ethanol - 1,1'-oxybis[2,3,3,3-tetrachloropropane] phenyl-4h-3,1-benzoxazinone - Phenylmercuricethylhexonate - Phenylmercuric formamide - Phenylmercuric hydroxide - Phenylmercuric lactate - Phenylmercuric laurylmercaptide - Phenylmercuric monoethanol ammonium acetate - Phenylmercuric monoethanol ammonium lactate 

Pesticides 185 Common names Chemical names - Phenylmercuric naphthenate - Phenylmercuric oleate - Phenylmercuric propionate - Phenylmercuricquinolinate - Phenylmercuric thiocyanate - Phenylmercuric triethanolammonium lactate - Phenylethylmercuric salicylate - N-(phenylmercuric urea) - Phenylmercury ammonium acetate - Phenylmercury ammonium propionate - Phenylmercury borate - Phenylmercury carbonate - Phenylmercury dimethyldithiocarbamate - Phenylmercury(II) nitrate - Polychlorodicyclopentadiene - Poly(oxyethylene) (dimethylimino) ethylene (dimethylimino) ethylene dichloride - Pyridinamine pyridyl 1-(2,5-xylyl)ethyl sulfone 1-oxide - Sodium (Z)chloroacrylate - Sodium hexafluorosilicate 

 Laws of Malaysia ACT 149 186 Common names Chemical names - Sodium metaborate, hydrous or anhydrous - Sodium tetrathio(peroxocarbonate) - 2,3,5,6-tetrachloro(methylsulphonyl)pyridine - 2,2',3,3'-tetrachloro-4,4'-oxydibutenolide - 4,5,6,7-tetrachlorophthalide - Tetrachlorothiophene - Tetradecyl pyridinium bromide - O,O,O',O'-tetrapropyl dithiopyrophosphate thiocyanatoethyl laurate - Tributyl phosphorotrithioite - Tributyltin benzoate; or (benzyloxy) tributyl stannane - tributyltin chloride; or tributyl-chloro stannane - Tributyltin fluoride; or tributyl-fluoro stannane - Tributyltin linocleate; or tributyl-(1-oxo-9,12-octadecadienyl)oxy stannane - Tributyltin methacrylate; or tributyl-(2-methyl-l-oxopropyl)oxy stannane - Tributyltin naphthenate; or tributyl-mono(naphthenoyloxy)stannane 

Pesticides 187 Common names Chemical names - Tributyltin oxide; or hexabutyldistannoxane - 4,5,7-trichloro-2,1,3-benzothiadiazole - Trichlorobenzyl chloride - 2,2,2-trichloro(3,4-dichlorophenyl)ethylacetate - Tris(1-dodecylmethylpheynlbenzimidazolium) hexacyanoferrate”. SECOND SCHEDULE [Section 2] EXEMPTED ARTICLES Paint for use as ordinary colouring paint Latex preservative THIRD SCHEDULE PART I [Subsection 60(1)] SUBSTANCES REMOVED FROM THE CONTROL OF THE POISONS ORDINANCE, F.M. ORDINANCE No. 29 OF 1952 Names of substances Item numbers in poisons list 1. Dinosam: its compounds with a metal or base 128 

 Laws of Malaysia ACT 149 188 2. Dinoseb: its compounds with a metal or base 129 3. Endosulfan 145 4. Endothal: its salts 146 5. Endrin 147 6. Fumigants: hydrogen cyanide and methyl bromide 167 gases 7. Methyl bromide 242 8. The following organo-tin compounds: 277 Compounds of fentin 9. The following phosphorous compounds 325 Amiton Azinphos-ethyl Azinphos-methyl Chlorfenvinphos Demeton-O Demeton-S Demeton-O-methyl Demeton-S-methyl Dichlorvos Diethyl 4-methylcoumarinyl phosphorothionate Diethyl p-nitrophenyl phosphate Dimefox Disulfoton Ethion Ethyl p-nitrophenyl phenylphosphothionate Mazidox Mecarbam Mevinphos 

Pesticides 189 Mipafox Oxydemeton-methyl Parathion Phenkapton Phorate Phosphamidon Scharadan Sulfotep TEPP (HETP) Thionazin Triphosphoric pentadimethylamide Vamidothion 10. Sodium fluoriacetate 361 11. Zinc dimethyldithiocarbamate 394 12. Zinc ethylene-bis-dithiocarbamate 395 13. Zinc phosphide 396 PART II [Subsection 60(1)] ENTRIES DELETED FROM APPENDIX TO POISONS LIST Under Agricultural and Horticultural Poisons Dinosam: its compounds with a metal or base Dinoseb: its compounds with a metal or base Endosulfan Endothal: its salts Endrin Organo-tin compounds—Compounds of fentin Phosphorous compounds and all entries thereunder Zinc dimethyldihicarbamate Zinc ethylene-bis-dithiocarbamate 

 Laws of Malaysia ACT 149 190 Zinc phosphide Under Industrial Poisons Fumigants: Hydrogen cyanide and Methyl bromide gas PART III [Subsection 62 (1)] SUBSTANCES REMOVED FROM THE CONTROL OF THE POISONS AND DELETERIOUS DRUGS ORDINANCE (CAP. 100) OF THE STATE OF SABAH 1. Dinitrophenols, their derivatives and their compounds used as weedkillers and insecticides 2. Endosulfan 3. Endrin 4. Fumigants—hydrogen cyanide and methyl bromide gases 5. The following organo-tin compounds: Compounds of fentin 6. Zinc dimethyldithiocarbamate 7. Zinc ethylene-bis-dithiocarbamate 8. Zinc phosphide PART IV [Subsection 64(1)] SUBSTANCES REMOVED FROM THE CONTROL OF THE POISONS ORDINANCE (CAP. 121) OF THE STATE OF SARAWAK Dinosam: its compounds with a metal or a base Dinoseb: its compounds with a metal or a base Zinc phosphide

 191 LAWS OF MALAYSIA ACT 149 PESTICIDES ACT 1974 LIST OF AMENDMENTS Amending law Short title In force from Act 160 Malaysia Currency (Ringgit) 291975 Act 1975 Act 157 Standards and Industrial Research 161975 Institute of Malaysia (Incorporation) Act 1975 P.U. (A) 224/1976 Standards and Industrial Research 161975 Institute of Malaysia (Modification) Order 1976 Act A324 Criminal Procedure Code 101976 (Amendment and Extension) Act 1976 P.U. (A) 97/1976 Modification of Laws (Criminal 101976 Procedure)(Sabah and Sarawak) Order 1976 Act A327 Penal Code (Amendment and 311976 Extension) Act 1976 P.U. (A) 157/1978 Modification of Laws (Dangerous 011978 Drugs and Poisons) (Extension and Modification) Order 1978 P.U. (A) 31/1981 Pesticides (Amendment of First 301981 Schedule) Order 1981 P.U. (A) 357/1980 Subordinate Courts Act (Extension) 011981 Order 1980 Act 260 Hydrogen Cyanide (Fumigation) 241981 Act 1953 P.U. (A) 214/1982 Pesticides (Amendment of First and 231982 Second Schedules) Order 1982 

 Laws of Malaysia ACT 149 192 Amending law Short title In force from P.U. (A) 22/1989 Pesticides (Amendment of Second 271989 Schedule) Order 1989 P.U. (A) 391/1993 Pesticides (Amendment of First 261993 Schedule) Order 1993 P.U. (A) 306/1999 Pesticides (Amendment of First 291999 Schedule) Order 1999 P.U. (A) 366/2001 Pesticides (Amendment of Second 072001 Schedule) Order 2001 P.U. (A) 16/2003 Pesticides (Amendment of First 172003 Schedule) Order 2003 P.U. (A) 364/2003 Revision of Laws (Rectification 192003 of Pesticides Act 1974) Order 2003 Act A1226 Pesticides (Amendment) Act 032005 2004 P.U. (A) 235/2011 Pesticides (Amendment of First 122011 Schedule) Order 2011 P.U. (A) 56/2017 Pesticides (Amendment of First 212017 Schedule) Order 2017 P.U. (A) 167/2019 Pesticides (Amendment of First 012019 Schedule) Order 2019 P.U.(A) 170/2021 Pesticides (Amendment of First 142021 Schedule) Order 2021 P.U.(A) 63/2023 Pesticides (Amendment of First 152023 Schedule) Order 2023 

 193 LAWS OF MALAYSIA ACT 149 PESTICIDES ACT 1974 LIST OF SECTIONS AMENDED Section Amending authority In force from 2 Act A1226 032005 3 Act A1226 032005 6 Act A1226 032005 7 Act A1226 032005 8 Act A1226 032005 9 Act A1226 032005 10-10A Act A1226 032005 12-14A Act A1226 032005 15 Act A1226 032005 17 Act A1226 032005 20 Act A1226 032005 33 Act A1226 032005 35-35A Act A1226 032005 44 Act A1226 032005 45A Act A1226 032005 45B Act A1226 032005 49 Act A1226 032005 50 Act A1226 032005 53-53A Act A1226 032005 56-57 Act A1226 032005 First Schedule P.U. (A) 31/1981 301981 P.U. (A) 214/1982 231982 P.U. (A) 391/1993 261993 P.U. (A) 306/1999 291999 

 Laws of Malaysia ACT 149 194 Section Amending authority In force from P.U. (A) 16/2003 172003 Act A1226 032005 P.U. (A) 235/2011 122011 P.U. (A) 56/2017 212017 P.U. (A) 167/2019 012019 P.U. (A) 170/2021 142021 P.U. (A) 63/2023 152023 Second Schedule P.U. (A) 214/1982 231982 P.U. (A) 22/1989 271989 P.U. (A) 366/2001 072001