Anti-Trafficking in Persons and Anti-Smuggling of Migrants 1 LAWS OF MALAYSIA REPRINT Act 670 ANTI-TRAFFICKING IN PERSONS AND ANTI-SMUGGLING OF MIGRANTS ACT 2007 As at 30 September 2025 PUBLISHED BY THE COMMISSIONER OF LAW REVISION, MALAYSIA UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF THE REVISION OF LAWS ACT 1968 2025

Laws of Malaysia2 Act 670 ANTI-TRAFFICKING IN PERSONS AND ANTI-SMUGGLING OF MIGRANTS ACT 2007 Date of Royal Assent ... ... ... ... 18 July 2007 Date of publication in the ... ... ... ... 26 July 2007 Gazette Latest amendment made by Act A1644 which came into operation on ... ... ... ... 22 February 2022 Previous r e Prints First Reprint … … … … 2014 Publisher’s Copyright C PERCETAKAN NASIONAL MALAYSIA BERHAD All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system or transmitted in any form or by any means electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording and/or otherwise without the prior permission of Percetakan Nasional Malaysia Berhad (Appointed Printer to the Government of Malaysia).

Anti-Trafficking in Persons and Anti-Smuggling of Migrants 3 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 670 ANTI-TRAFFICKING IN PERSONS AND ANTI-SMUGGLING OF MIGRANTS ACT 2007 ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS Part I PRELIMINARY Section 1. Short title and commencement 2. Interpretation 3. Scope of application 4. Extension of Act to extra territorial offences 5. Prevailing law Part I a HIGH LEVEL COMMITTEE 5a . High Level Committee 5b . Meetings of the Committee 5c . Function of the Committee Part II COUNCIL FOR ANTI-TRAFFICKING IN PERSONS AND ANTI-SMUGGLING OF MIGRANTS 6. Council for Anti-Trafficking in Persons and Anti-Smuggling of Migran ts 7. Functions and powers of the Council 8. Power of Minister to issue directions 9. Meetings of Council

Laws of Malaysia4 Act 670 10. Establishment of committees 11. Secretary of the Council and other officers Part III TRAFFICKING IN PERSONS OFFENCES, IMMUNITY , ETC. 12. Offence of trafficking in persons 13. Aggravated offence of trafficking in persons 14. Offence of trafficking in children or a person who is unable to fully take care of or protect himself because of a physical or mental disability or condition 15. Offence of profiting from exploitation of a trafficked person 15a . Offence in relation to trafficked person in transit 16. Consent of trafficked person irrelevant 17. Past sexual behaviour irrelevant 17a . Movement or conveyance of trafficked person irrelevant 18. Fraudulent travel or identity documents 19. Recruiting persons 20. Providing facilities in support of trafficking in persons 21. Providing services for purposes of trafficking in persons 22. Harbouring persons 23. Obligation of owner, operator or master of conveyance 24. Intentional omission to give information 25. Immunity from criminal prosecution 26. Protection of informers Part III a SMUGGLING OF MIGRANTS 26a . Offence of smuggling of migrants 26b . Aggravated offence of smuggling of migrants 26c . Offence in relation to smuggled migrant in transit 26d . Offence of profiting from the offence of smuggling of migrants 26 e . Fraudulent travel or identity documents 26 f. Providing facilities in support of smuggling of migrants 26g . Providing services for purposes of smuggling of migrants Section 

Anti-Trafficking in Persons and Anti-Smuggling of Migrants 5 26h . Concealing or harbouring smuggled migrants and migrant smugglers 26 i. Supporting offence of smuggling of migrants 26 j. Offence of conveyance of smuggled migrants 26k . Obligation of owner, etc., of conveyance Part IV ENFORCEMENT 27. Enforcement officers 28. Power of investigation 29. Power of arrest 30. Search and seizure with warrant 31. Search and seizure without warrant 32. Access to computerized data 33. List of things seized 34. Power to examine persons 35. Admissibility of statement 36. Forfeiture of conveyance, moveable property, etc . 37. Cost of holding conveyance, moveable property, etc., seized 38. No costs or damages arising from entry, search or seizure to be recoverable 39. Obstruction 40. Tipping-off 41. Institution of prosecution Part V CARE AND PROTECTION OF TRAFFICKED PERSONS 41a . Non-application 42. Place of refuge 43. Appointment of Protection Officers 44. Taking a person into temporary custody 45. Person in temporary custody in need of medical examination or treatment 46. Medical examination and treatment Section 

Laws of Malaysia6 Act 670 47. Authorization for hospitalization 48. Control over hospitalised person 49. Steps to be taken after medical examination or treatment 50. No liability incurred for giving authorization 51. Investigation, enquiry and Protection Order 51a . Permission to move freely and to work 52. Recording of evidence of trafficked person 53. Application by parent, guardian or relative 54. Release of trafficked person 55. Trafficked person who escapes or is removed from place of refuge 56. Offence of removing or helping a trafficked person to escape from place of refuge 57. Power of Minister to remove trafficked person from one place of refuge to another Part VI MISCELLANEOUS 58. Restriction on media reporting and publication 59. Evidence of agent provocateur admissible 60. Admissibility of documentary evidence 61. Admissibility of translation of documents 61a . Admissibility of deposition of trafficked person or smuggled migrant who cannot be found 62. Indemnity 63. General and enhanced penalties 64. Offence by body corporate 65. Offence by employee or agent 65a . Public servant 66. Regulations 66a . Order for payment of compensation to the trafficked person 66b . Order for payment of wages in arrears in the case of no conviction 67. Prevention of anomalies Section 

Anti-Trafficking in Persons and Anti-Smuggling of Migrants 7 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 670 *ANTI-TRAFFICKING IN PERSONS AND ANTI-SMUGGLING OF MIGRANTS ACT 2007 An Act to prevent and combat trafficking in persons and smuggling of migrants and to provide for matters connected therewith. [Part I, II, Section 66 and 67–1 October 2007, P .U. (B) 339/2007; Part III, IV , V and VI–28 February 2008, P .U. (B) 86/2008 ] ENACTED by the Parliament of Malaysia as follows: Part I PRELIMINARY Short title and commencement 1. (1) This Act may be cited as the **Anti-Trafficking in Persons and Anti-Smuggling of Migrants Act 2007. (2) This Act comes into operation on a date to be appointed by the Minister by notification in the Gazette , and the Minister may appoint different dates for the coming into operation of different provisions of this Act. *NOTE—Previously known as the Anti-Trafficking in Persons Act 2007. Change in short title vide section 3 of the Anti-Trafficking in Persons (Amendment) Act 2010 [ Act A1385 ] w.e.f. 15 November 2010– see P.U. (B) 500/2010. **NOTE —All references to the Anti-Trafficking in Persons Act 2007 and the Council for Anti-Trafficking in Persons in any written law or document shall, on the coming into operation of this Act, be construed as references to the Anti-Trafficking in Persons and Anti-Smuggling of Migrants Act 2007 and the Council for Anti-Trafficking in Persons and Anti-Smuggling of Migrants respectively– see section 26 of the Anti-Trafficking in Persons (Amendment) Act 2010 [ Act A1385 ] w.e.f. 15 November 2010– see P.U. (B) 500/2010.

Laws of Malaysia8 Act 670 Interpretation 2. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires— “this Act” includes any subsidiary legislation made under this Act; “prescribed” means prescribed by the Minister by regulations; “fraudulent travel or identity document” means a travel or identity document that— (a) has been made, or altered in a material way, by a person other than a person or agency lawfully authorised to make or issue the travel or identity document on behalf of a country; (b) has been issued or obtained through misrepresentation, corruption or duress or in any other unlawful manner; or (c) is being improperly used by a person other than the rightful holder; “exploitation” includes all forms of sexual exploitation, forced labour or services, slavery or practices similar to slavery, servitude, any illegal activity or the removal of human organs; “child” means a person who is under the age of eighteen years; “Court” means Sessions Court; “Council” means the Council for Anti-Trafficking in Persons and Anti-Smuggling of Migrants established under section 6; “Minister” means the Minister charged with the responsibility for internal security; “smuggled migrant” means a person who is the object of the act of smuggling of migrants, regardless of whether that person participated in the act of smuggling of migrants; “receiving country” means a country into which a trafficked person or a smuggled migrant is brought as part of an act of trafficking in persons or smuggling of migrants, as the case may be; 

Anti-Trafficking in Persons and Anti-Smuggling of Migrants 9 “transit country” means a country from which, or into or through which, a trafficked person or a smuggled migrant, as the case may be, is brought or travels through by land, sea or air or temporarily remains in as part of an act of trafficking in persons or smuggling of migrants; “trafficked person” means any person who is the victim or object of an act of trafficking in persons; “officer of the Malaysian Maritime Enforcement Agency” has the same meaning assigned to it by the Malaysian Maritime Enforcement Agency Act 2004 [ Act 633 ]; “Labour Officer” means a Labour Officer appointed under section 3 of the Employment Act 1955 [ Act 265 ] or section 3 of the Sabah Labour Ordinance [ Sabah Cap. 67 ] or section 3 of the Sarawak Labour Ordinance [ Sarawak Cap. 76 ]; “immigration officer” has the same meaning assigned to it by the Immigration Act 1959/63 [ Act 155 ]; “Officer of customs” has the same meaning assigned to it by the Customs Act 1967 [ Act 235 ]; “Social Welfare Officer” means any Social Welfare Officer in the ministry or department responsible for welfare services and includes any Assistant Social Welfare Officer; “Protection Officer” means any officer appointed under section 43; “enforcement officer” means any officer specified in subsection 27(1) or any public officer appointed under subsection 27( 1a ); “medical officer” means a registered medical practitioner in the service of the Government and includes a registered medical practitioner in any teaching hospital of a University; “permanent resident” has the same meaning assigned to it by the Courts of Judicature Act 1964 [ Act 91 ];

Laws of Malaysia10 Act 670 “trafficking in persons” means all actions of recruiting, conveying, transferring, acquiring, maintaining, harbouring, providing or receiving, a person, for the purpose of exploitation, by the following means: (a) threat or use of force or other forms of coercion; (b) abduction; (c) fraud; (d) deception; (e) abuse of power; (f) abuse of the position of vulnerability of a person to an act of trafficking in persons; or (g) the giving or receiving of payments or benefits to obtain the consent of a person having control over the trafficked person; “conveyance” means any vehicle, vessel, ship, aircraft, or any other mode of transport whether by air, sea or land; “smuggling of migrants” means— (a) arranging, facilitating or organizing, directly or indirectly, a person’s unlawful entry into or through, or unlawful exit from, any country of which the person is not a citizen or permanent resident either knowing or having reason to believe that the person’s entry or exit is unlawful; and (b) recruiting, conveying, transferring, concealing, harbouring or providing any other assistance or service for the purpose of carrying out the acts referred to in paragraph (a); “Protection Order” means an order made by a Magistrate for the care and protection of a trafficked person under paragraph 51(3) (a); “premises” means house, building, factory, land, tenement, easement of any tenure, whether open or enclosed, whether built on or not, whether public or private, and whether maintained or not under statutory authority, and includes any container;

Anti-Trafficking in Persons and Anti-Smuggling of Migrants 11 “place of refuge” means a place of refuge declared by the Minister under subsection 42(1) of this Act. Scope of application 3. The offences under this Act apply, regardless of whether the conduct constituting the offence took place inside or outside Malaysia and whatever the nationality or citizenship of the offender, in the following circumstances: (a) if Malaysia is the receiving country or transit country or the exploitation occurs in Malaysia; or (b) if the receiving country or transit country is a foreign country but the trafficking in persons or smuggling of migrants starts in Malaysia or transits Malaysia. Extension of Act to extra territorial offences 4. Any offence under this Act committed— (a) on the high seas on board any ship or on any aircraft registered in Malaysia; (b) by any citizen or permanent resident of Malaysia on the high seas on board any ship or on any aircraft; or (c) by any citizen or any permanent resident in any place outside and beyond the limits of Malaysia, may be dealt with as if it had been committed at any place within Malaysia. Prevailing law 5. (1) The provisions of this Act shall be in addition to, and not in derogation of, the provisions of any other written law relating to trafficking in persons and smuggling of migrants.

Laws of Malaysia12 Act 670 (2) In the event of any conflict or inconsistency between the provisions of this Act and those of any other written laws, the provisions of this Act shall prevail and the conflicting or inconsistent provisions of such other written laws shall, to the extent of the conflict or inconsistency, be deemed to be superseded. Part I a HIGH LEVEL COMMITTEE High Level Committee 5A. (1) A High Level Committee shall be established consisting of the ministers of the Ministries who are represented on the Council. (2) The High Level Committee shall be chaired by the Minister. Meetings of the Committee 5b . The High Level Committee shall meet as often as may be necessary. Function of the Committee 5C. The High Level Committee shall deliberate on and decide the recommendations made by the Council. Part II COUNCIL FOR ANTI-TRAFFICKING IN PERSONS AND ANTI-SMUGGLING OF MIGRANTS Council for Anti-Trafficking in Persons and Anti-Smuggling of Migrants 6. (1) A body to be known as Council for Anti-Trafficking in Persons and Anti-Smuggling of Migrants shall be established for the purpose of this Act.

Anti-Trafficking in Persons and Anti-Smuggling of Migrants 13 (2) The Council shall consist of the following members: (a) the Secretary General of the Ministry responsible for internal security, who shall be the Chairman; (b) the Secretary General of the Ministry responsible for foreign affairs, or his representative; (c) (Deleted by Act A1500 ); (d) the Secretary General of the Ministry responsible for women, family and community development, or his representative; (e) the Secretary General of the Ministry responsible for human resources, or his representative; (f) the Secretary General of the Ministry responsible for transport, or his representative; (g) the Secretary General of the Ministry responsible for information, or his representative; (h) the Attorney General of Malaysia, or his representative; (i) the Inspector General of Police, or his representative; (j) the Director-General of Immigration, or his representative; (k) the Director-General of Customs, or his representative; (l) the Director-General of Malaysian Maritime Enforcement, or his representative; (la) the Director-General of the Department of Women’s Development, or his representative; (lb) the Director-General of Social Welfare Department, or his representative; (lc) the Director-General of Labour, Department of Labour of Peninsular Malaysia, or his representative; 

Laws of Malaysia14 Act 670 (ld) Director of Labour, Department of Labour Sabah, or his representative; (le) Director of Labour, Department of Labour Sarawak, or his representative; (m) a representative of the following Ministries: (i) the Ministry responsible for internal security; (ii) the Ministry responsible for defence; (iii) the Ministry responsible for medical and health service; (iv) the Ministry responsible for development of youth and sports; (v) the Ministry responsible for international trade and industry; (vi) the Ministry responsible for plantation industries and commodities; (n) not more than five persons from non-governmental organization or other relevant organizations having appropriate experience, knowledge and expertise in problems and on issues relating to trafficking in persons including the protection and support of trafficked persons, to be appointed by the Minister; and (o) not more than three persons from non-governmental organizations or other relevant organizations with appropriate experience, knowledge and expertise on problems and issues relating to smuggling of migrants, to be appointed by the Minister. (3) Each member of the Council appointed under paragraphs (2)(n) and (o) shall, unless he sooner resigns, hold office for a period not exceeding two years and is eligible for re-appointment. (4) Any member of the Council appointed under paragraphs (2)(n) and (o) may, at any time resign his office, by giving notice in writing to the Minister.

Anti-Trafficking in Persons and Anti-Smuggling of Migrants 15 (5) The members of the Council specified under subsection (2) may be paid such allowances as the Minister may determine. Functions and powers of the Council 7. (1) The Council shall perform the following functions: (a) coordinating the implementation of this Act; (b) formulating policies and programmes to prevent and combat trafficking in persons and smuggling of migrants; (c) formulating protective programmes for trafficked persons; (d) initiating education programmes to increase public awareness of the causes and consequences of the act of trafficking in persons and smuggling of migrants; (e) monitoring the immigration and emigration patterns in Malaysia for evidence of trafficking in persons and smuggling of migrants and to secure the prompt response of the relevant government agencies and non-governmental organizations to problems on trafficking in persons and smuggling of migrants brought to its attention; (f) advising the Government on the issues of trafficking in persons and smuggling of migrants including developments at the international level against trafficking in persons and smuggling of migrants; (g) making recommendations to the Minister on all aspects of the prevention and combating of trafficking in persons and smuggling of migrants; (h) coordinating the formulation of policies and monitoring the implementation of such policies on issues of trafficking in persons and smuggling of migrants with relevant government agencies and non-governmental organizations; (i) cooperating and coordinating with governments and international organizations on trafficking in persons and smuggling of migrants; 

Laws of Malaysia16 Act 670 (j) collecting and collating data and information, and authorising research, in relation to the prevention and combating of trafficking in persons and smuggling of migrants; (ja) paying any allowance, subject to the availability of funds, to a trafficked person as the Council may determine; and (k) performing any other functions for the proper implementation of this Act. (2) The Council shall have all such powers as may be necessary for, or in connection with, or reasonably incidental to, the performance of its functions. Power of Minister to issue directions 8. The Minister may, from time to time, give the Council directions not inconsistent with this Act as to the performance of the functions and powers of the Council and the Council shall give effect to such directions. Meetings of Council 9. (1) The Council shall meet as often as may be necessary for the performance of its functions at such time and place as the Chairman may determine. (2) Seven members, including the Chairman, shall form the quorum of a meeting of the Council. (3) The Chairman shall preside over all its meetings. (4) If the Chairman is unable for any reason to preside any meeting of the Council, the meeting shall be presided by a member elected from amongst the members present. (5) The Council may invite any person to attend any meeting or deliberation of the Council for the purpose of advising it on any matter under discussion, but that person shall not be entitled to vote at the meeting.

Anti-Trafficking in Persons and Anti-Smuggling of Migrants 17 (6) At any meeting of the Council, the Chairman shall have a deliberative vote and shall, in the event of an equality of votes, have a casting vote. (7) Any person invited under subsection (5) may be paid such allowance as the Minister may determine. (8) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Council may make rules for regulating its meetings and proceedings. Establishment of committees 10. (1) The Council may establish such committees as it deems necessary or expedient to assist it in the performance of its functions and the exercise of its powers under this Act. (2) A committee established under subsection (1)— (a) shall be chaired by any member of the Council specified under paragraphs 6(2) (b) to (m); (b) shall conform to and act in accordance with any direction given to it by the Council; and (c) may determine its own procedure. (3) Members of the committees established under subsection (1) may be appointed from amongst members of the Council or such other persons as the Council thinks fit. (4) Except for members of the committees appointed from amongst members of the Council, any other persons appointed as members of the committees may be paid such allowance as the Minister may determine. (5) A member of a committee shall hold office for such term as may be specified in his letter of appointment and is eligible for reappointment. (6) The Council may revoke the appointment of any member of a committee without assigning any reason therefor.

Laws of Malaysia18 Act 670 (7) A member of a committee may, at any time, resign by giving notice in writing to the chairman of the committee. (8) The Council may, at any time, discontinue or alter the constitution of a committee. (9) A committee shall hold its meetings at such times and places as the chairman of the committee may determine. (10) A committee may invite any person to attend any meeting of the committee for the purpose of advising it on any matter under discussion but that person shall not be entitled to vote at the meeting. (11) Any person invited under subsection (10) may be paid such allowance as the Minister may determine. Secretary of the Council and other officers 11. (1) The Minister shall appoint a public officer to be the Secretary of the Council and such other public officers as may be necessary to assist the Council. (2) The Secretary of the Council shall have any duties and functions as may be determined by the Minister. Part III TRAFFICKING IN PERSONS OFFENCES, IMMUNITY , ETC. Offence of trafficking in persons 12. Any person, who traffics in persons not being a child or not being a person who is unable to fully take care of or protect himself because of a physical or mental disability or condition, commits an offence and shall on conviction, be punished with imprisonment for a term not exceeding *twenty years, and shall also be liable to fine. *NOTE—Previously “fifteen years”– see subsection 4 (c) of the Anti-Trafficking in Persons and Anti-Smuggling of Migrants (Amendment) Act 2022 [ Act A1644 ] w.e.f. 22 February 2022.

Anti-Trafficking in Persons and Anti-Smuggling of Migrants 19 Aggravated offence of trafficking in persons 13. Any person who commits an offence of trafficking in persons, where the trafficked person not being a child or not being a person who is unable to fully take care of or protect himself because of a physical or mental disability or condition where any of the following applies: (a) in committing the offence, the person caused grievous hurt to the trafficked person or to any other person; (b) in committing the offence, the person caused death to the trafficked person or to any other person; (c) in committing the offence, where caused by or at the time the person was trafficked, the trafficked person committed suicide; (d) in committing the offence, the person exposed the trafficked person to life threatening diseases, including the Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) and Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS); (e) in committing the offence, the person engaged in trafficking in persons activities as part of an organized criminal group activity; or (f) where the offence of trafficking in persons was committed by a public officer in the performance of his public duties, shall, on conviction, be punished with imprisonment for life or with imprisonment for a term which shall not be less than five years, and shall also be liable to whipping.

Laws of Malaysia20 Act 670 Offence of trafficking in children or a person who is unable to fully take care of or protect himself because of a physical or mental disability or condition 14. (1) Any person, who traffics in persons being a child or a person who is unable to fully take care of or protect himself because of a physical or mental disability or condition, commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be punished with *imprisonment for life or with imprisonment for a term which shall not be less than five years, and shall also be liable to whipping. (2) In a prosecution for an offence under this section, the means used against a trafficked person who is a child or a person who is unable to fully take care of or protect himself because of a physical or mental disability or condition is irrelevant and is not a requirement to be proved. Offence of profiting from exploitation of a trafficked person 15. Any person who profits from the exploitation of a trafficked person commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be punished with imprisonment for a term not exceeding fifteen years, and shall also be liable to a fine of not less than **five hundred thousand ringgit but not exceeding one million ringgit and shall also be liable to forfeiture of the profits from the offence. Offence in relation to trafficked person in transit 15A. Any person who brings in transit a trafficked person through Malaysia by land, sea or air, or otherwise arranges or facilitates such act commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be punished with imprisonment for a term not exceeding ***fifteen years, and shall also be liable to fine. *NOTE—Previously “imprisonment for a term not less than three years but not exceeding twenty years, and shall also be liable to fine”– see subsection 6 (c)(iii) of the Anti-Trafficking in Persons and Anti-Smuggling of Migrants (Amendment) Act 2022 [ Act A1644 ] w.e.f. 22 February 2022. **NOTE—Previously “fifty thousand ringgit but not exceeding five hundred thousand ringgit”– see section 10 of the Anti-Trafficking in Persons (Amendment) Act 2010 [ Act A1385 ] w.e.f. 15 November 2010. ***NOTE —Previously “seven years”– see section 7 of the Anti-Trafficking in Persons and Anti-Smuggling of Migrants (Amendment) Act 2022 [ Act A1644 ] w.e.f. 22 February 2022.

Anti-Trafficking in Persons and Anti-Smuggling of Migrants 21 Consent of trafficked person irrelevant 16. In a prosecution for an offence under section 12, 13 or 14, it shall not be a defence that the trafficked person consented to the act of trafficking in persons. Past sexual behaviour irrelevant 17. A trafficked person’s past sexual behaviour is irrelevant and inadmissible for the purpose of proving that the trafficked person was engaged in other sexual behaviour or to prove the trafficked person’s sexual predisposition. Movement or conveyance of trafficked person irrelevant 17A. In a prosecution for any offence under this Part, the prosecution need not prove the movement or conveyance of the trafficked person but that the trafficked person was subject to exploitation. Fraudulent travel or identity documents 18. Any person who makes, obtains, gives, sells or possesses a fraudulent travel or identity document for the purpose of facilitating an act of trafficking in persons commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be punished with imprisonment for a term not exceeding ten years, and shall also be liable to a fine of not less than fifty thousand ringgit but not exceeding five hundred thousand ringgit. Recruiting persons 19. Any person who knowingly recruits, or agrees to recruit, another person to participate in the commission of an act of trafficking in persons, commits an offence and shall, on conviction be punished, with imprisonment for a term not exceeding *fifteen years, and shall also be liable to fine. *NOTE—Previously “ten years”– see section 8 of the Anti-Trafficking in Persons and Anti-Smuggling of Migrants (Amendment) Act 2022 [ Act A1644 ] w.e.f. 22 February 2022.

Laws of Malaysia22 Act 670 Providing facilities in support of trafficking in persons 20. Any person being— (a) the owner, occupier, lessee or person in charge of any premises, room or place, knowingly permits a meeting to be held in that premises, room or place; or (b) the owner, lessee or person in charge of any equipment or facility that allows for recording, conferencing or meetings via technology, knowingly permits that equipment or facility to be used, for the purpose of committing an offence under this Act, commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be punished with imprisonment for a term not exceeding ten years, and shall also be liable to fine. Providing services for purposes of trafficking in persons 21. (1) Any person who, directly or indirectly, provides or makes available financial services or facilities— (a) intending that the services or facilities will be used, or knowing or having reasonable grounds to believe that the services or facilities will be used, in whole or in part, for the purpose of committing or facilitating the commission of an act of trafficking in persons, or for the purpose of benefiting any person who is committing or facilitating the commission of an act of trafficking in persons; or (b) knowing or having reasonable grounds to believe that, in whole or in any part, the services or facilities will be used by or will benefit any person involved in an act of trafficking in persons, commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be punished with imprisonment for a term not exceeding ten years, and shall also be liable to fine.

Anti-Trafficking in Persons and Anti-Smuggling of Migrants 23 (2) For the purpose of subsection (1), “financial services or facilities” include the services or facilities offered by lawyers or accountants acting as nominees or agents for their clients. Harbouring persons 22. (1) Any person who— (a) harbours a person; or (b) prevents, hinders or interferes with the arrest of a person, knowing or having reason to believe that such person has committed or is planning or is likely to commit an act of trafficking in persons, commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be punished with imprisonment for a term not exceeding ten years, and shall also be liable to fine. (2) In this section, “harbour” means supplying a person with shelter, food, drink, money or clothes, arms, ammunition or means of conveyance, or assisting a person in any way to evade apprehension. Obligation of owner, operator or master of conveyance 23. (1) Any person being the owner, operator or master of any conveyance, that engages in the transportation of goods or people for commercial gain shall ensure that every person travelling on board is in possession of travel documents for lawful entry of that person into the receiving country or transit country. (2) Any owner, operator or master of any conveyance mentioned in subsection (1) who— (a) knowingly permits or has reasonable grounds to believe that such conveyance is used for purposes of bringing a person into a receiving country or transit country without travel documents required for the lawful entry of that person into the receiving country or transit country; or 

Laws of Malaysia24 Act 670 (b) knowingly permits or has reasonable grounds to believe that such conveyance is being used for purposes of committing any offence of trafficking in persons, commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding two hundred and fifty thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding five years or to both. (3) In any proceedings for an offence under this section, it shall be a defence for such owner, operator or master to prove that— (a) he has reasonable grounds to believe that the travel documents of the person travelling on board are travel documents required for lawful entry of that person into the receiving country or transit country; (b) the person travelling on board possessed travel documents required for lawful entry into the receiving country or transit country when that person boarded, or last boarded, the conveyance to travel to the receiving country or transit country; or (c) the entry of the person into the receiving country or transit country occurred only because of illness or injury to that person, stress of weather or any other circumstances beyond the control of such owner, operator or master. (4) Any person convicted of an offence under this section shall be liable to pay the costs of the trafficked person’s detention in, and removal from, the receiving country or transit country. (5) Where there is no prosecution or conviction under this section, the owner, operator or master of the conveyance used shall be jointly and severally liable for all expenses incurred by the Government in respect of the detention and maintenance of the trafficked person and his removal from Malaysia and such expenses shall be recoverable as a debt due to the Government.

Anti-Trafficking in Persons and Anti-Smuggling of Migrants 25 Intentional omission to give information 24. Any person who knowing or having reason to believe, that any offence under this Act has been or will be committed, intentionally omits to give any information respecting that offence, commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding two hundred and fifty thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding five years, or to both. Immunity from criminal prosecution 25. A trafficked person shall not be liable to criminal prosecution in respect of— (a) his illegal entry into the receiving country or transit country; (b) his period of unlawful residence in the receiving country or transit country; or (c) his procurement or possession of any fraudulent travel or identity document which he obtained, or with which he was supplied, for the purpose of entering the receiving country or transit country, where such acts are the direct consequence of an act of trafficking in persons that is alleged to have been committed or was committed. Protection of informers 26. (1) Except as provided in this section, no complaint as to an offence under this Act shall be admitted in evidence in any civil or criminal proceedings whatsoever, and no witness shall be obliged or permitted to disclose the name or address of any informer, or state any matter which might lead to his discovery. (2) If any book, document or paper which is in evidence or liable to inspection in any civil or criminal proceedings whatsoever contains any entry in which any informer is named or described or which might lead to his discovery, the court before which the proceedings is had shall cause all such entries to be concealed from view or to be obliterated so far as is necessary to protect the informer from discovery.

Laws of Malaysia26 Act 670 (3) If in a trial for any offence under this Act, the Court, after full enquiry into the case, is of the opinion that the informer willfully made in his complaint a material statement which he knew or believe to be false or did not believe to be true, or if in any other proceedings the court is of the opinion that justice cannot be fully done between the parties without the discovery of the informer, the Court may require the production of the original complaint, if in writing, and permit enquiry and require full disclosure concerning the informer. (4) Any person who gives the information referred to in this section, knowing that the information is false, commits an offence. Part III a SMUGGLING OF MIGRANTS Offence of smuggling of migrants 26A. Any person who carries out smuggling of migrants commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be punished with imprisonment for a term not exceeding *twenty years, and shall also be liable to fine, or to both. Aggravated offence of smuggling of migrants 26b . Any person who commits an offence of smuggling of migrants where any of the following applies: (a) in committing the offence, the person intends that the smuggled migrant will be exploited after entry into the receiving country or transit country whether by the person himself or by another person; (b) in committing the offence, the person subjects the smuggled migrant to cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment; (c) in committing the offence, the person’s conduct gives rise to a risk of death or serious harm to the smuggled migrant; or *NOTE —Previously “fifteen years”– see section 9 of the Anti-Trafficking in Persons and Anti-Smuggling of Migrants (Amendment) Act 2022 [ Act A1644 ] w.e.f. 22 February 2022.

Anti-Trafficking in Persons and Anti-Smuggling of Migrants 27 (d) where the offence of smuggling of migrants was committed by a public officer in the performance of his public duties, shall, on conviction, be punished with *imprisonment for life or with imprisonment for a term which shall not be less than five years, and shall also be liable to whipping. Offence in relation to smuggled migrant in transit 26C. Any person who brings in transit a smuggled migrant through Malaysia by land, sea or air or otherwise arranges or facilitates such act commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be punished with imprisonment for a term not exceeding **fifteen years, and shall also be liable to fine, or to both. Offence of profiting from the offence of smuggling of migrants 26D. Any person who profits from the offence of smuggling of migrants commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be punished with imprisonment for a term of not less than seven years but not exceeding fifteen years, and shall also be liable to a fine of not less than five hundred thousand ringgit but not exceeding one million ringgit, or to both, and shall also be liable to forfeiture of the profits from the offence. Fraudulent travel or identity documents 26E. Any person who makes, obtains, gives, sells or possesses a fraudulent travel or identity document for the purpose of facilitating an act of smuggling of migrants commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be punished with imprisonment for a term of not less than seven years but not exceeding fifteen years, and shall also be liable to a fine of not less than fifty thousand ringgit but not exceeding five hundred thousand ringgit, or to both. *NOTE—Previously “imprisonment for a term not less than three years but not exceeding twenty years, and shall also be liable to fine, or to both”– see paragraph 10 (e) of the Anti-Trafficking in Persons and Anti-Smuggling of Migrants (Amendment) Act 2022 [ Act A1644 ] w.e.f. 22 February 2022. **NOTE —Previously “seven years”– see section 11 of the Anti-Trafficking in Persons and Anti-Smuggling of Migrants (Amendment) Act 2022 [ Act A1644 ] w.e.f. 22 February 2022.

Laws of Malaysia28 Act 670 Providing facilities in support of smuggling of migrants 26F. Any person, being— (a) the owner, occupier, lessee or person in charge of any premises, room or place, knowingly permits a meeting of persons to be held in that premises, room or place; or (b) the owner, lessee or person in charge of any equipment or facility that allows for recording, conferences or meetings via technology, knowingly permits that equipment or facility to be used, for the purpose of committing an offence under this Part, commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be punished with imprisonment for a term not exceeding ten years, and shall also be liable to fine, or to both. Providing services for purposes of smuggling of migrants 26G. (1) Any person who, directly or indirectly, provides or makes available financial services or facilities— (a) intending that the services or facilities be used, or knowing or having reasonable grounds to believe that the services or facilities will be used, in whole or in part, for the purpose of committing or facilitating the commission of an act of smuggling of migrants, or for the purpose of benefiting any person who is committing or facilitating the commission of an act of smuggling of migrants; or (b) knowing or having reasonable grounds to believe that, in whole or in part, the services or facilities will be used by or will benefit any person involved in an act of smuggling of migrants, commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be punished with imprisonment for a term not exceeding ten years, and shall also be liable to fine, or to both. (2) For the purpose of subsection (1), “financial services or facilities” include the services and facilities offered by lawyers or accountants acting as nominees or agents for their clients.

Anti-Trafficking in Persons and Anti-Smuggling of Migrants 29 Concealing or harbouring smuggled migrants and migrant smugglers 26h . (1) Any person who conceals or harbours, or prevents, hinders or interferes with the arrest of any person knowing or having reason to believe that such person is— (a) a smuggled migrant; or (b) a person who has committed or is planning or is likely to commit an act of smuggling of migrants, commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be punished with imprisonment for a term not exceeding ten years, and shall also be liable to fine, or to both. (2) In this section, “harbour” includes supplying a person with shelter, food, drink, money or clothes, arms, ammunition or means of conveyance, or assisting a person in any way to evade apprehension. Supporting offence of smuggling of migrants 26I. (1) Any person who provides material support or resources to another person and the support and resources aid the receiver or any other person to engage in conduct constituting the offence of smuggling of migrants commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be punished with imprisonment for a term not exceeding fifteen years, and shall also be liable to fine, or to both. (2) For the avoidance of doubt, a person commits an offence under subsection (1) even if the offence of smuggling of migrants is not committed. Offence of conveyance of smuggled migrants 26j. Any person being the owner, operator or master of any conveyance who engages in the conveyance of smuggled migrants commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be punished with imprisonment for a term not exceeding five years and shall also be liable to a fine not exceeding two hundred and fifty thousand ringgit, or to both. 

Laws of Malaysia30 Act 670 Obligation of owner, etc., of conveyance 26K. (1) Any person being the owner, operator or master of any conveyance that engages in the conveyance of goods or people for commercial gain shall ensure that every person travelling on board is in possession of travel documents for the lawful entry of that person into the receiving country or transit country and if not, shall refuse to convey such person. (2) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding two hundred and fifty thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding five years, or to both. (3) In any proceeding for an offence under this section, it shall be a defence for such owner, operator or master to prove that— (a) he has reasonable grounds to believe that the travel documents of the person referred to in subsection (1) are travel documents required for lawful entry of that person into the receiving country or transit country; (b) the person referred to in subsection (1) possessed travel documents required for lawful entry to the receiving country or transit country when that person boarded, or last boarded, the conveyance to travel to the receiving country or transit country; or (c) the entry of the person referred to in subsection (1) into the receiving country or transit country occurred only because of illness or injury to that person, stress of weather or any other circumstances beyond the control of such owner, operator or master. (4) Any person convicted of an offence under this section shall be liable to pay the costs of the smuggled migrant’s detention in, and removal from, the receiving country or transit country. (5) Where there is no prosecution or conviction under this section, the owner, operator or master of the conveyance used shall be jointly and severally liable for all expenses incurred by the Government in respect of the detention and maintenance of the smuggled migrant and his removal from Malaysia and such expenses shall be recoverable as a debt due to the Government.

Anti-Trafficking in Persons and Anti-Smuggling of Migrants 31 Part IV ENFORCEMENT Enforcement officers 27. (1) The following officers shall be enforcement officers for the purpose of this Act and may exercise all powers of enforcement: (a) any police officer; (b) any immigration officer; (c) any Officer of customs; (d) any officer of the Malaysian Maritime Enforcement Agency; and (e) any Labour Officer. ( 1a ) The Minister may, after consultation with any other relevant Minister, appoint any public officer as may be deemed necessary as an enforcement officer for the purposes of this Act and the public officer appointed as such may exercise all powers of enforcement. ( 1b ) Every appointment under subsection ( 1a ) shall be published in the Gazette . (2) An enforcement officer when acting against any person under this Act, shall declare his office and shall produce to the person against whom he is acting any authority card which has been issued to him. Power of investigation 28. An enforcement officer shall have all the powers necessary to carry out an investigation for any offence under this Act.

Laws of Malaysia32 Act 670 Power of arrest 29. (1) An enforcement officer may arrest without warrant any person— (a) found committing or attempting to commit or abetting the commission of an offence under this Act; or (b) whom the enforcement officer reasonably suspects of being engaged in committing or attempting to commit or abetting the commission of an offence under this Act. (2) An enforcement officer making an arrest under subsection (1) shall, without unnecessary delay, bring the person arrested to the nearest police station, and thereafter the person shall be dealt with in accordance with the law relating to criminal procedure for the time being in force. Search and seizure with warrant 30. (1) If it appears to a Magistrate, upon written information on oath and after such enquiry as the Magistrate considers necessary, that there is reasonable cause to believe that— (a) any premises or conveyance has been used or is about to be used for; or (b) there is in any premises or conveyance evidence necessary to the conduct of an investigation into, the commission of an offence under this Act, the Magistrate may issue a warrant authorizing any enforcement officer named therein, at any reasonable time, by day or by night, to enter the premises or conveyance. (2) A warrant issued under subsection (1) may authorise the enforcement officer to— (a) search the premises or conveyance for, and to seize or remove from the premises or conveyance, any moveable property, book, record, report or document, or any human organ that is reasonably believed to furnish evidence of the commission of such offence; and

Anti-Trafficking in Persons and Anti-Smuggling of Migrants 33 (b) make copies of, or take extracts from any book, record, report or document found in the premises or conveyance. (3) An enforcement officer entering any premises or conveyance under this section may take with him such other persons or equipment as may appear to him to be necessary. (4) An enforcement officer may, in the exercise of his powers under this section, if necessary— (a) break open any outer or inner door of the premises or conveyance or any obstruction to the premises or conveyance in order to effect entry into the premises or conveyance; (b) remove by force any obstruction to entry, search, seizure or removal as he is empowered to effect under this section; and (c) detain any person found in the premises or conveyance until the search has been completed. (5) Where, by reason of its nature, size or amount, it is not practicable to remove any moveable property, book, record, report or document or any human organ seized under this section, the enforcement officer shall, by any means, seal such moveable property, book, record, report or document or any human organ in the premises or conveyance in which it is found. (6) A person who, without lawful authority, breaks, tampers with or damages the seal referred to in subsection (5) or removes the moveable property, book, record, report or document or any human organ under seal, or attempts to do so, commits an offence. Search and seizure without warrant 31. (1) Where an enforcement officer has reasonable grounds to believe that by reason of delay in obtaining a search warrant under section 30, the investigation would be adversely affected or evidence of the commission of an offence is likely to be tampered with, removed, damaged or destroyed, he may, without warrant, with such assistance and force as is necessary— (a) enter and search any premises;

Laws of Malaysia34 Act 670 (b) stop and search any conveyance or person; (c) seize and detain such conveyance, moveable property, book, record, report or document or human organ; or (d) inspect, make copies of or take extract from any book, record, report or document found in the premises or conveyance. (2) In exercising his powers under this section, an enforcement officer shall have all the powers conferred upon him under subsections 30(3), (4) and (5). Access to computerized data 32. (1) Any enforcement officer conducting a search under this Act shall be given access to computerized data whether stored in a computer or otherwise. (2) For the purpose of subsection (1), the enforcement officer shall be provided with the necessary password, encryption code, decryption code, software or hardware or any other means required for his access to enable comprehension of the computerized data. List of things seized 33. (1) Except as provided in subsection (2), where any conveyance, moveable property, book, record, report or document or any human organ is seized under this Part, the enforcement officer shall prepare a list of the things seized and immediately deliver a copy signed by him to the occupier of the premises or the owner of the conveyance which has been searched, or to his agent or servant, at the premises or conveyance. (2) Where the premises is unoccupied, the enforcement officer shall, whenever possible, post a list of the things seized conspicuously at or on the place or premises.

Anti-Trafficking in Persons and Anti-Smuggling of Migrants 35 Power to examine persons 34. (1) An enforcement officer may, by notice in writing, require any person whom he believes to be acquainted with the facts and circumstances of the case to— (a) attend before him for examination; (b) produce before him any moveable property, record, report or document; or (c) furnish him a statement in writing made on oath or affirmation setting out such information as he may require. (2) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) commits an offence. (3) The person examined under subsection (1) shall be legally bound to answer all questions relating to such case put to him by the enforcement officer, but he may refuse to answer any question the answer to which would have a tendency to expose him to a criminal charge or penalty or forfeiture. (4) A person making a statement under paragraph (1) (c) shall be legally bound to state the truth, whether or not such statement is made wholly or partly in answer to the questions of the enforcement officer. (5) An enforcement officer examining a person under subsection (1) shall first inform that person of the provisions of subsections (3) and (4). (6) A statement made by any person under subsection (3) or (4) shall be reduced into writing and signed by the person making it or affixed with his thumb print— (a) after it has been read to him in the language in which he made it; and (b) after he has been given an opportunity to make any correction he may wish.

Laws of Malaysia36 Act 670 Admissibility of statement 35. (1) Except as provided in this section, no statement made by any person to an enforcement officer in the course of an investigation made under this Act shall be used in evidence. (2) When any witness is called for the prosecution or for the defence, other than the accused, and there is a basis for impeaching the credit of that witness, the Court shall, subject to the provisions of the Evidence Act 1950 [ Act 56 ], refer to any statement made by that witness to an enforcement officer in the course of an investigation under this Act and may then use that statement to impeach the credit of the witness. (3) Where the accused had made a statement during the course of an investigation, such statement may be admitted in evidence in support of his defence during the course of the trial. (4) Nothing in this section shall be deemed to apply to any statement made in the course of an identification parade or falling within section 27 or paragraphs 32(1) (a), (i) and (j) of the Evidence Act 1950. (5) When any person is charged with any offence in relation to— (a) the making; or (b) the contents, of any statement made by him to an enforcement officer in the course of an investigation made under this Act, that statement may be used as evidence in the prosecution’s case. Forfeiture of conveyance, moveable property, etc. 36. (1) All conveyance, moveable property, book, record, report or document, or any human organ seized in the exercise of any power conferred under this Act are liable to forfeiture. (2) The Court trying any person accused of an offence under this Act may at the conclusion of the trial, whether he is convicted or not, order that the conveyance, moveable property, book, record, report or document or any human organ seized from that person be forfeited.

Anti-Trafficking in Persons and Anti-Smuggling of Migrants 37 (3) Where there is no prosecution with regard to any offence under this Act— (a) in the case of human organ seized, it shall be deemed to be forfeited; and (b) in the case of the conveyance, moveable property, book, record, report or document seized, the enforcement officer shall serve a notice in writing to the last known address of the person from whom the conveyance, moveable property, book, record, report or document was seized. (4) The notice in paragraph (3) (b) shall specify that there is no prosecution in respect of such conveyance, moveable property, book, record, report or document and that such conveyance, moveable property, book, record, report or document will be forfeited at the expiration of one calendar month from the date of service of the notice unless a claim is made by the person from whom the conveyance, moveable property, book, record, report or document was seized. (5) Upon receipt of the notice issued under paragraph (3) (b), any person asserting that he is the owner of any conveyance, moveable property, book, record, report or document seized under this Act which is not liable to forfeiture may, personally or by his agent authorized in writing by him, give written notice to the enforcement officer in whose possession the conveyance, moveable property, book, record, report or document is held. (6) Upon receipt of a notice under subsection (5), the enforcement officer who made the seizure shall refer the matter to the Court for its determination. (7) The Court to which the matter is referred shall issue a summons requiring the person asserting that he is the owner of the conveyance, moveable property, book, record, report or document and the person from whom it was seized to appear before the Court, and upon their appearance or default to appear, due service of the summons being proved, the Court shall proceed to the examination of the matter, and on proof that such conveyance, moveable property, book, record, report or document was the subject matter of or was used in the commission of an offence under this Act, shall order the conveyance, moveable property, book, record, report or document to be forfeited or may, in the absence of such proof, order the release of such conveyance, moveable property, book, record, report or document to the person entitled to it.

Laws of Malaysia38 Act 670 (8) Any conveyance, moveable property, book, record, report or document or any human organ forfeited or deemed to be forfeited shall be disposed of in any manner as the enforcement officer deems fit. Cost of holding conveyance, moveable property, etc., seized 37. Where any conveyance, moveable property, record, report or document or human organ seized under this Act is held in the custody of the enforcement officer pending completion of any proceedings in respect of an offence under this Act, the cost of holding such conveyance, moveable property, record, report or document or any human organ in custody shall, in the event of any person being found guilty of an offence, be a civil debt due to the Government by such person and shall be recoverable accordingly. No costs or damages arising from entry, search or seizure to be recoverable 38. No person shall, in respect of any entry or search, or seizure of any conveyance, moveable property, record, report or document or any human organ seized in the exercise of any power conferred by this Act, be entitled to the costs of such entry, search, or seizure or to any damages or other relief unless such entry, search or seizure was made without reasonable cause. Obstruction 39. Any person who obstructs, impedes, interferes or fails to comply with any lawful demand of an enforcement officer in the performance of his functions under this Act commits an offence. Tipping-off 40. (1) Any person who— (a) knows or has reasonable grounds to suspect that an enforcement officer is acting, or is proposing to act, in connection with an investigation which is being, or 

Anti-Trafficking in Persons and Anti-Smuggling of Migrants 39 is about to be, conducted under or for the purposes of this Act and discloses to any other person information or any other matter which is likely to prejudice that investigation or proposed investigation; or (b) knows or has reasonable grounds to suspect that a disclosure has been made to an enforcement officer under this Act and discloses to any other person information or any other matter which is likely to prejudice any investigation which might be conducted following the disclosure, commits an offence. (2) Nothing in subsection (1) makes it an offence for an advocate and solicitor or his employee to disclose any information or other matter— (a) to his client or the client’s representative in connection with the giving of advice to the client in the course and for the purpose of the professional employment of the advocate and solicitor; or (b) to any person in contemplation of, or in connection with and for the purpose of, any legal proceedings. (3) Subsection (2) does not apply in relation to any information or other matter which is disclosed with a view to furthering any illegal purpose. (4) In a proceedings against a person for an offence under this section, it is a defence to prove that— (a) he did not know or suspect that the disclosure made under paragraph (1) (b) was likely to prejudice the investigation; or (b) he had lawful authority or reasonable excuse for making the disclosure. Institution of prosecution 41. No prosecution for an offence under this Act shall be instituted except by or with the written consent of the Public Prosecutor.

Laws of Malaysia40 Act 670 Part V CARE AND PROTECTION OF TRAFFICKED PERSONS Non-application 41A. This Part shall not apply to a smuggled migrant unless such smuggled migrant is a trafficked person. Place of refuge 42. (1) The Minister may declare any house, building or place, or any part thereof, to be a place of refuge for the care and protection of trafficked persons and may, in like manner, declare that such place of refuge ceases to be a place of refuge. (2) The Minister may, from time to time, direct the separation of different categories of trafficked persons, among others, according to age and gender either at the same place of refuge or at different places of refuge. (3) The Minister charged with the responsibility for women, family and community development shall be responsible for any matter relating to the management, administration and control over the place of refuge declared under subsection (1), the trafficked person in the place of refuge and the Protection Officer appointed under section 43. (4) The Minister charged with the responsibility for women, family and community development may issue any directions in any manner, whether generally or specifically for the purposes referred to in subsection (3). Appointment of Protection Officers 43. (1) The Minister, after consultation with the Minister charged with the responsibility for women, family and community development may appoint such number of Social Welfare Officers, any other public officer or any other person to exercise the powers and perform the duties of a Protection Officer under this Act subject to any condition as may be specified.

Anti-Trafficking in Persons and Anti-Smuggling of Migrants 41 ( 1a ) ( Deleted by Act A1644 ). (2) The Protection Officer shall— (a) have control over and responsibility for the care and protection of the trafficked person at the place of refuge; (b) carry out an enquiry and cause to be prepared a report of the trafficked person as required under this Act; (c) have the power to supervise the trafficked person upon order by the Magistrate or direction by the Minister; and (d) have such other powers, duties and functions as the Minister may prescribe. Taking a person into temporary custody 44. (1) An enforcement officer may, on reasonable suspicion that any person who is found or rescued is a trafficked person, take that person into temporary custody and produce him before a Magistrate within twenty-four hours, exclusive of the time necessary for the journey to the Magistrate’s Court, for the purpose of obtaining an interim protection order. (2) The Magistrate shall make an interim protection order for the person to be placed at a place of refuge for a period of twenty-one days for the purpose of carrying out an investigation and enquiry under section 51. (3) The enforcement officer shall, upon obtaining the order issued under subsection (2), surrender the trafficked person to a Protection Officer to place that trafficked person at the place of refuge specified in the order.

Laws of Malaysia42 Act 670 Person in temporary custody in need of medical examination or treatment 45. (1) Where an enforcement officer who takes a person into temporary custody under subsection 44(1) is of the opinion that the person is in need of medical examination or treatment, the enforcement officer may, instead of taking that person before a Magistrate, present him to a medical officer. (2) If at the time of being taken into temporary custody, the person is a patient in a hospital, the enforcement officer may leave that person in the hospital. Medical examination and treatment 46. A medical officer before whom a person is presented under section 45— (a) shall conduct or cause to be conducted an examination of the person; (b) may in examining the person and if so authorised by an enforcement officer, administer or cause to be administered such procedures and tests as may be necessary to diagnose the person’s condition; or (c) may provide or cause to be provided such treatment as he considers necessary as a result of the diagnosis. Authorization for hospitalization 47. Where a person taken into temporary custody under subsection 44(1) is a child and the medical officer who examines him is of the opinion that his hospitalization is necessary for the purpose of medical care or treatment, an enforcement officer may authorise that person to be hospitalised.

Anti-Trafficking in Persons and Anti-Smuggling of Migrants 43 Control over hospitalised person 48. Where the person taken into temporary custody under subsection 44(1) is hospitalised, the enforcement officer shall have control over, and responsibility for, the security and protection of that person. Steps to be taken after medical examination or treatment 49. (1) A person who is taken into temporary custody under subsection 44(1) and is medically examined under section 46 shall be produced before a Magistrate within twenty-four hours— (a) of the completion of such examination or treatment; or (b) if the person is hospitalised, on his discharge from the hospital. (2) If it is not possible to bring that person before a Magistrate within the time specified in subsection (1), that person shall be placed in a place of refuge until such time as he can be brought before a Magistrate. No liability incurred for giving authorization 50. (1) If a person is examined or treated under this Part— (a) the enforcement officer who authorises such examination or treatment; (b) the medical officer who examines or treats the person; and (c) all persons acting in aid of the medical officer, shall not incur any liability at law by reason only that a person is examined or treated pursuant to this Part.

Laws of Malaysia44 Act 670 (2) Nothing contained in subsection (1) relieves a medical officer from liability in respect of the examination or treatment of the person taken into temporary custody under subsection 44(1), which liability he would have been subject to had the examination or treatment been carried out or administered with the consent of the parent or guardian of the person or person having authority to consent to the examination or treatment. Investigation, enquiry and Protection Order 51. (1) Where an interim protection order is made under subsection 44(2), within twenty-one days from the date of such order— (a) an enforcement officer shall investigate into the circumstances of the person’s case for the purpose of determining whether the person is a trafficked person under this Act; and (b) a Protection Officer shall enquire into the background of that person. (2) Upon completion of the investigation and enquiry under subsection (1), the enforcement officer and the Protection Officer shall jointly prepare a report and produce the report together with the person before a Magistrate’s Court for the purpose of satisfying the Magistrate that such person is a trafficked person under this Act. (3) Where the Magistrate, having read the report produced under subsection (2), is satisfied that the person brought before him— (a) is a trafficked person and in need of care and protection, the Magistrate may make a Protection Order— (i) in the case of a trafficked person who is a citizen or permanent resident of Malaysia, ordering that such trafficked person be placed in a place of refuge for a period not exceeding three months from the date of the order; or

Anti-Trafficking in Persons and Anti-Smuggling of Migrants 45 (ii) in the case of a trafficked person who is a foreign national, ordering that such trafficked person be placed in a place of refuge for a period not exceeding three months from the date of the order, and thereafter to release him to an immigration officer for necessary action in accordance with the provisions of the Immigration Act 1959/63, (b) is not a trafficked person, the Magistrate may— (i) in the case of a person who is a citizen or permanent resident of Malaysia, order that person to be released; or (ii) in the case of a person who is a foreign national, order that person to be released to an immigration officer for necessary action in accordance with the provisions of the Immigration Act 1959/63. (4) The Magistrate may at any time, on the application of an enforcement officer or a Protection Officer, as the case may be, extend or revoke the Protection Order made under this section. (5) Notwithstanding subsection (4), where the trafficked person is a foreign national, an extension of the Protection Order may be granted only for the purpose of completing the recording of his evidence under section 52, the recording of deposition for the purposes of section 61a or for any exceptional circumstances as determined by the Magistrate. (6) Nothing in this section shall prejudice any prosecution of an act of trafficking in persons under this Act. Permission to move freely and to work 51A. (1) Subject to any regulations made under section 66, any person to whom an interim protection order has been granted, or any trafficked person to whom a Protection Order has been granted, may be given permission by the Council— (a) to move freely; or 

Laws of Malaysia46 Act 670 (b) to be employed, engaged or contracted with to carry out work in any occupation during the period of the interim protection order or Protection Order, as the case may be. (2) A foreign national who is granted permission to work under subsection (1) shall be subject to any restrictions and conditions as may be imposed by the relevant authorities relating to employment of foreign nationals in Malaysia. Recording of evidence of trafficked person 52. (1) Where a criminal prosecution has been instituted against any person for an offence under this Act, the Public Prosecutor may make an oral application for the production of the trafficked person before a Sessions Court before which the criminal prosecution has been instituted for the purpose of recording that trafficked person’s evidence on oath. (2) The Sessions Court Judge may, upon such application, issue a summons or order directed to the person in charge of the place of refuge where such trafficked person is placed, or to the enforcement officer who is investigating the circumstances of the case of a trafficked person, requiring him to produce the trafficked person at the time and place specified in the summons or order. (3) The Sessions Court Judge shall record the evidence of the trafficked person and complete such recording within seven days from the date of the production of that trafficked person before him. (4) In the course of the recording of evidence of the trafficked person, he shall be examined in accordance with the provisions of the Evidence Act 1950. (5) The Sessions Court Judge shall cause the evidence taken by him to be reduced into writing and, at the end of that writing, shall sign the same.

Anti-Trafficking in Persons and Anti-Smuggling of Migrants 47 (6) Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act or any other written laws to the contrary, the evidence recorded under this section shall be admissible in evidence in any proceedings under this Act and the weight to be attached to such evidence shall be the same as that of a witness who appears and gives evidence in the course of a proceeding. Application by parent, guardian or relative 53. (1) Where a trafficked person placed in a place of refuge is a citizen or permanent resident of Malaysia, the parent, guardian or relative of that person may, at any time, make an application to the Magistrate’s Court to commit that person into the custody of the parent, guardian or relative. (2) The parent, guardian or relative of the trafficked person shall serve a copy of the application to the Protection Officer. (3) Upon receipt of an application under subsection (2), the Protection Officer shall cause a report to be prepared in relation to— (a) the trafficked person; (b) the status of any investigation or prosecution for any offence under this Act in relation to the trafficked person; (c) the background of the trafficked person, his parent, guardian or relative; or (d) any other matter as the Protection Officer deems relevant, to enable the Magistrate to determine the application in the best interest of the trafficked person. (4) The Magistrate shall, upon receipt of the application, fix a date for the hearing of the application, and shall, by notice in writing, inform the parent, guardian or relative of the trafficked person, as the case may be, the Protection Officer or other person the Magistrate deems fit, and shall require the production of the trafficked person before him on the appointed date.

Laws of Malaysia48 Act 670 (5) After hearing the application and having read the report of the Protection Officer, and if the Magistrate is satisfied that it is in the best interest of the trafficked person, he may— (a) commit the person into the care and protection of the parent, guardian or relative of the person, upon such conditions as he may deems fit to impose; (b) require the parent, guardian or relative of the person to enter into a bond; or (c) require the person to be placed under the supervision of a Protection Officer, for a period to be determined by the Magistrate. (6) The Magistrate may, at any time, revoke any order made under subsection (5). Release of trafficked person 54. (1) Upon revocation of a Protection Order or expiry of the period specified in a Protection Order, the Protection Officer shall— (a) in the case of a trafficked person who is a citizen or permanent resident of Malaysia, release that person; or (b) in the case of a trafficked person who is a foreign national who has valid documents and is employed, release that person, or in any other case as may be prescribed, release that person to an immigration officer to be returned to his country of origin in accordance with any laws relating to immigration. (2) The immigration officer shall take all necessary steps to facilitate the return of that trafficked person to his country of origin without unnecessary delay, with due regard for his safety. (3) Notwithstanding subsection (1), the court may, upon an application made by a Protection Officer or an enforcement officer, and being satisfied that the trafficked person requires further care and protection for a reasonable reason or for the purposes of the management of repatriation, make an order that the trafficked person be placed in a place of refuge for any further period as the Magistrate may think fit.

Anti-Trafficking in Persons and Anti-Smuggling of Migrants 49 Trafficked person who escapes or is removed from place of refuge 55. Any trafficked person who escapes or is removed from a place of refuge without lawful authority— (a) may be taken into custody by any enforcement officer and shall be brought back to the place of refuge; and (b) shall be placed for such period which is equal to the period during which he was unlawfully at large and for the unexpired residue of his term in the Protection Order originally made by the Magistrate. Offence of removing or helping a trafficked person to escape from place of refuge 56. Any person who— (a) removes a trafficked person from a place of refuge without lawful authority; (b) knowingly assists or induces, directly or indirectly, a trafficked person to escape from a place of refuge; or (c) knowingly harbours or conceals a trafficked person who has so escaped, or prevents him from returning to the place of refuge, commits an offence. Power of Minister to remove trafficked person from one place of refuge to another 57. The Minister may, after consultation with the Minister charged with the responsibility for women, family and community development, at any time, for reasons which appear to him to be sufficient, by order in writing direct the removal of any trafficked person from a place of refuge to any other place of refuge as may be specified in the order.

Laws of Malaysia50 Act 670 Part VI MISCELLANEOUS Restriction on media reporting and publication 58. (1) Notwithstanding any written laws to the contrary, any mass media report regarding— (a) any step taken in relation to a trafficked person or smuggled migrant in any proceedings be it at the pre-trial, trial or post-trial stage; (b) any trafficked person in respect of whom custody or protection is accorded under Part V; or (c) any other matters under this Act, shall not reveal the name or address, or include any particulars calculated to lead to the identification of any trafficked person or smuggled migrant so concerned either as being the trafficked person or smuggled migrant or as being a witness to any proceedings. (2) A picture of— (a) any trafficked person or smuggled migrant in any of the matters mentioned in subsection (1); or (b) any other person, place or thing which may lead to the identification of the trafficked person or smuggled migrant, shall not be published in any newspaper or magazine or transmitted through any electronic medium. (3) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) or (2) commits an offence.

Anti-Trafficking in Persons and Anti-Smuggling of Migrants 51 Evidence of agent provocateur admissible 59. (1) Notwithstanding any law or rule of law to the contrary, in any proceedings against any person for an offence under this Act, no agent provocateur shall be presumed to be unworthy of credit by reason only of his having attempted to commit or to abet, or having abetted or having been engaged in a criminal conspiracy to commit, such offence if the main purpose of such attempt, abetment or engagement was to secure evidence against such person. (2) Notwithstanding any law or rule of law to the contrary, a conviction for any offence under this Act solely on the uncorroborated evidence of any agent provocateur shall not be illegal and no such conviction shall be set aside merely because the court which tried the case has failed to refer in the grounds of its judgment to the need to warn itself against the danger of convicting on such evidence. Admissibility of documentary evidence 60. Where any enforcement officer has obtained any document or other evidence in exercise of his powers under this Act, such document or copy of the document or other evidence, as the case may be, shall be admissible in evidence in any proceedings under this Act, notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any written laws. Admissibility of translation of documents 61. (1) Where any document which is to be used in any proceeding against any person for an offence under this Act is in a language other than the national language or English language, a translation of such document into the national language or English language shall be admissible in evidence where the translation is accompanied by a certificate of the person who translated the document setting out that it is an accurate, faithful and true translation and the translation had been done by such person at the instance of any enforcement officer.

Laws of Malaysia52 Act 670 (2) Subsection (1) shall apply to a document which is translated, regardless of whether the document was made in or outside Malaysia, or whether the translation was done in or outside Malaysia, or whether possession of such document was obtained by any enforcement officer in or outside Malaysia. Admissibility of deposition of trafficked person or smuggled migrant who cannot be found 61A. (1) Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act and any written law to the contrary, where in any proceeding for an offence under this Act a testimony of any person in respect of whom an order of removal from Malaysia has been made by the Director General under section 32 or 33 or subsection 56(2) of the Immigration Act 1959/63 is required by the court, there shall be admissible in evidence before that court any deposition relating to the subject matter of that proceeding made by that person— (a) in Malaysia before a Sessions Court Judge or a Magistrate in the presence or absence of the person charged with the offence; or (b) outside Malaysia before a consular officer or a judicial officer of a foreign country in the presence or absence of the person charged with the offence, and any such deposition shall, without further proof, be admitted as prima facie evidence of any fact stated in the deposition. (2) It shall not be necessary for any party in any proceeding to prove the signature or official character of the Sessions Court Judge, Magistrate, consular officer or judicial officer before whom the deposition under subsection (1) was made. (3) For the purposes of this section, a reference to— (a) a “deposition” includes any written statement made upon oath; and (b) an “oath” includes an affirmation or declaration in the case of persons allowed by law to affirm or declare instead of swear. 

Anti-Trafficking in Persons and Anti-Smuggling of Migrants 53 (4) Nothing in this section shall prejudice the admission as evidence of any other depositions. Indemnity 62. No action, suit, prosecution or other proceedings shall lie or be brought, instituted, or maintained in any court or before any other authority against— (a) any enforcement officer; (b) any Protection Officer; or (c) any person lawfully acting in compliance with any direction or order of an enforcement officer or a Protection Officer, for or on account of, or in respect of, any act done or statement made or omitted to be done or made, or purporting to be done or made or omitted to be done or made, in pursuance of or in execution of, or intended pursuance of or execution of, this Act or any order in writing, direction or other thing issued under this Act if such act or statement was done or made, or was omitted to be done or made, in good faith. General and enhanced penalties 63. (1) Any person who commits an offence under this Act for which no penalty is expressly provided shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding one hundred and fifty thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding three years or to both. (2) Where an offence under this Act is committed by a body corporate, the body corporate shall, on conviction— (a) where a fine is specified under the relevant section, be liable to a fine of not less than three times the maximum fine specified; and 

Laws of Malaysia54 Act 670 (b) where no fine is specified— (i) in relation to sections 15a and 26c , shall be liable to a minimum fine of five million ringgit; and (ii) in any other case, shall be liable to a minimum fine of one million ringgit. (3) Where, after having been convicted of any offence under this Act, a person subsequently commits another offence under this Act, he shall, on conviction, for that subsequent offence, be punished with an enhanced penalty which shall not be less than the penalty that had been imposed on him for the earlier offence. (4) Where an offence under this Act has been committed by a person who has been proved to the court to have acted jointly with one or more persons in the commission of the offence, the person shall, on conviction, be punished with an enhanced penalty which shall be a more severe penalty than that which would have been imposed on him if he had acted individually. Offence by body corporate 64. Where any offence against any provision of this Act has been committed by a body corporate, any person who at the time of the commission of the offence was a director, manager, secretary or other similar officer of the body corporate, or was purporting to act in any such capacity, or was in any manner responsible for the management of any of the affairs of such body corporate, or was assisting in such management, shall also be guilty of that offence unless he proves that the offence was committed without his knowledge, consent or connivance, and that he exercised all such diligence to prevent the commission of the offence as he ought to have exercised, having regard to the nature of his functions in that capacity and to all the circumstances.

Anti-Trafficking in Persons and Anti-Smuggling of Migrants 55 Offence by employee or agent 65. Where any person would be liable under this Act to any punishment or penalty for any act, omission, neglect or default, such person shall be liable to the same punishment or penalty for every such act, omission, neglect or default of any employee or agent of his or of the employee of such agent, if such act, omission, neglect or default was committed by the person’s employee in the course of his employment, or by the agent when acting on behalf of the person, or by the employee of such agent in the course of his employment by such agent, or otherwise on behalf of the agent. Public servant 65A. Every Protection Officer, while discharging their duty as such Protection Officer under this Act shall be deemed to be a public servant within the meaning of the Penal Code [ Act 574 ]. Regulations 66. (1) The Minister may make such regulations as are necessary or expedient to give full effect to, or for carrying out, the provisions of this Act. (2) Without prejudice to the generality of subsection (1), regulations may be made— (a) to prescribe the functions or any other matters in relation to the Council; (aa) to prescribe the qualifications, conditions, procedures or any other matters relating to the granting of permission to move freely and to work under section 51a ; (b) to provide for an offence, any act or omission which contravenes any provision of any regulations; (c) to provide for the imposition of penalties for such offences; (d) to prescribe measures for the care and protection of trafficked persons at the place of refuge;

Laws of Malaysia56 Act 670 (e) to prescribe for the powers and functions of a Protection Officer; (f) (Deleted by Act A1644 ); (fa) to provide for the payment and recovery of any expenses incurred by the Government in connection with the detention, maintenance, medical treatment and removal from Malaysia of any person under this Act; (g) to provide for any matter which, under this Act, is required or permitted to be prescribed or which is necessary or expedient to be prescribed. Order for payment of compensation to the trafficked person 66A. (1) The Court before which a person is convicted of an offence under this Act may make an order for the payment of a sum fixed by the Court by way of compensation by the convicted person to the trafficked person. (2) In relation to the order of the payment of compensation, subsections 426( 1a ), (1b ), (1c ) and ( 1d ) of the Criminal Procedure Code [ Act 593 ] shall apply. (3) For the purposes of payment of compensation, section 432 of the Criminal Procedure Code shall apply. (4) The order of payment of compensation under this section shall not prevent the commencement of any civil action in Court by the trafficked person against the convicted person. Order for payment of wages in arrears in the case of no conviction 66b . (1) In the case of no conviction of an offence under this Act, where payment of wages is in arrears to an alleged trafficked person, the Court shall make an order for the payment of such wages in arrears of a sum fixed by the Court to the alleged trafficked person upon application of the Public Prosecutor after conducting an inquiry by the Court. (2) For the purposes of determining the sum of wages in arrears, the Court shall conduct an inquiry within seven days after the date of the decision to determine the order under subsection (1). 

Anti-Trafficking in Persons and Anti-Smuggling of Migrants 57 (3) For the purposes of subsection (2), any evidence produced during the trial of an offence under this Act may be used as evidence by the Court to determine the payment of wages in arrears. (4) For the purposes of the payment of wages in arrears under subsection (1), section 432 of the Criminal Procedure Code shall apply. Prevention of anomalies 67. (1) The Minister may, whenever it appears to him necessary or expedient to do so, whether for the purpose of removing difficulties or preventing anomalies in consequence of the enactment of this Act, by order published in the Gazette make such modifications to any provisions in this Act as he thinks fit, but the Minister shall not exercise the powers conferred by this section after the expiration of two years from the appointed date. (2) In this section, “modifications” include amendments, additions, deletions, substitutions, adaptations, variations, alterations, and non-application of any provisions of this Act. *NOTE — see section 17 of the Anti-Trafficking in Persons and Anti-Smuggling of Migrants (Amendment) Act 2015 [ Act A1500] w.e.f 18 November 2015 which provides the following provision: “Savings 17. Saving & The amendment of this Act shall not affect any order issued or made under the amended Act prior to the date of coming into operation of this Act.”. **NOTE— see section 19 of the Anti-Trafficking in Persons and Anti-Smuggling of Migrants (Amendment) Act 2022 [ Act A1644 ] w.e.f 22 February 2022 which provides the following provision: “Saving 19. (1) Notwithstanding the provisions of this Act, the members of the Council appointed by the Minister under paragraphs 6(2) (n) and (o) before the date of coming into operation of this Act shall continue to hold office until the appointments are revoked or until the expiry of their terms of appointment. (2) All directions, declarations, Protection Orders and interim protection orders made, issued or granted under the principal Act shall, to the extent that the directions, declarations, Protection Orders and interim protection orders are consistent with the principal Act as amended by this Act, continue to be in force until such directions, declarations, Protection Orders and interim protection orders are revoked or amended. (3) Any investigation, recording of deposition, trial or proceedings done, taken or commenced under the principal Act immediately before the coming into operation of this Act, shall be dealt with as if the principal Act had not been amended by this Act.”.

Laws of Malaysia58 Act 670 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 670 ANTI-TRAFFICKING IN PERSONS AND ANTI-SMUGGLING OF MIGRANTS ACT 2007 LIST OF AMENDMENTS Amending law Short title In force from Act A1385 Anti-Trafficking in Persons (Amendment) Act 2010 152010 Act A1500 Anti-Trafficking in Persons and Anti-Smuggling of Migrants (Amendment) Act 2015 182015 Act A1644 Anti-Trafficking in Persons and Anti-Smuggling of Migrants (Amendment) Act 2022 222022

Anti-Trafficking in Persons and Anti-Smuggling of Migrants 59 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 670 ANTI-TRAFFICKING IN PERSONS AND ANTI-SMUGGLING OF MIGRANTS ACT 2007 LIST OF SECTIONS AMENDED Section Amending authority In force from Long Title Act A1385 152010 1 Act A1385 152010 2 Act A1385 Act A1500 Act A1644 152010 182015 222022 3 Act A1385 152010 5 Act A1385 152010 Part I a Act A1500 182015 5a Act A1500 182015 5b Act A1500 182015 5c Act A1500 182015 Part II Act A1385 152010 6 Act A1385 Act A1500 Act A1644 152010 182015 222022 7 Act A1385 Act A1500 152010 182015 11 Act A1500 182015 12 Act A1644 222022 13 Act A1644 222022 14 Act A1644 222022 15 Act A1385 152010 15a Act A1385 Act A1644 152010 222022 17a Act A1385 152010 19 Act A1644 222022 23 Act A1385 152010

Laws of Malaysia60 Act 670 Section Amending authority In force from 25 Act A1385 152010 Part III a Act A1385 152010 26a Act A1385 Act A1644 152010 222022 26b Act A1385 Act A1644 152010 222022 26c Act A1385 Act A1644 152010 222022 26d -26k Act A1385 152010 27 Act A1385 Act A1644 152010 222022 35 Act A1385 152010 Part V Act A1385 152010 41a Act A1385 152010 42 Act A1500 Act A1644 182015 222022 43 Act A1500 Act A1644 182015 222022 44 Act A1385 Act A1500 152010 182015 51 Act A1385 Act A1500 Act A1644 152010 182015 222022 51a Act A1500 182015 52 Act A1385 Act A1500 152010 182015 54 Act A1500 Act A1644 182015 222022 57 Act A1644 222022 58 Act A1385 152010 61a Act A1385 152010 63 Act A1385 152010 65a Act A1500 182015

Anti-Trafficking in Persons and Anti-Smuggling of Migrants 61 Section Amending authority In force from 66 Act A1385 Act A1500 Act A1644 152010 182015 222022 66a Act A1500 182015 66b Act A1500 182015 WJW25/0742 212025 +DNFLSWD3HQFHWDN+ ',&(7$.2/(+ 3(5&(7$.$11$6,21$/0$/$<6,$%(5+$' .8$/$/80385 ZZZSULQWQDVLRQDOFRPP\ HPDLOFVHUYLFH#SULQWQDVLRQDOFRPP\ 7HO %$*,3,+$.'$1'(1*$13(5,17$+.(5$-$$10$/$<6,$ 3(5&(7$.$11$6,21$/0$/$<6,$%(5+$' 6HPXD+DN7HUSHOLKDUD7LDGDPDQDPDQDEDKDJLDQMXDGDULSDGDSHQHUELWDQLQLEROHKGLWHUELWNDQVHPXODDWDXGLVLPSDQGLGDODPEHQWXN \DQJEROHKGLSHUROHKLVHPXODDWDXGLVLDUNDQGDODPVHEDUDQJEHQWXNGHQJDQDSDMXDFDUDHOHNWURQLNPHNDQLNDOIRWRNRSLUDNDPDQGDQDWDX VHEDOLNQ\DWDQSDPHQGDSDWL]LQGDULSDGD3HUFHWDNDQ1DVLRQDO0DOD\VLD%HUKDG3HQFHWDNNHSDGD.HUDMDDQ0DOD\VLD\DQJGLODQWLN 