Food Donors Protection 1 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 826 FOOD DONORS PROTECTION ACT 2020

2 Laws of Malaysia Date of Royal Assent ... ... 30 January 2020 Date of publication in the ... ... 10 February 2020 Gazette Publisher’s Copyright C PERCETAKAN NASIONAL MALAYSIA BERHAD All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system or transmitted in any form or by any means electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording and/or otherwise without the prior permission of Percetakan Nasional Malaysia Berhad (Appointed Printer to the Government of Malaysia). Act 826

Food Donors Protection 3 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 826 FOOD DONORS PROTECTION ACT 2020 ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS Section 1. Short title and commencement 2. Interpretation 3. Protection of food donors 

4 Laws of Malaysia Act 826

Food Donors Protection 5 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 826 FOOD DONORS PROTECTION ACT 2020 An Act to provide for the protection for food donors from any civil liability and for matters connected therewith. [ ] ENACTED by the Parliament of Malaysia as follows: Short title and commencement 1. (1) This Act may be cited as the Food Donors Protection Act 2020. (2) This Act comes into operation on a date to be appointed by the Minister by notification in the Gazette . Interpretation 2. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires— “food” means food used or intended for use in whole or in part for human consumption and includes— (a) any raw, surplus, cooked, processed or prepared edible substance;

6 Laws of Malaysia Act 826 (b) any surplus, cooked, processed or prepared beverage; and (c) any raw, surplus, processed or prepared ingredient; “food donor” means any person who donates or distributes food to any person without any payment or any form of consideration and includes any corporation, partnership, enterprise, association , government entity, manufacturer, supplier, wholesaler, retailer, hypermarket, supermarket, hotel, restaurant, caterer, agricultural producer, charitable institution, charitable organization, foundation or other organization or entity and its director, agent, or employee, or volunteer. Protection of food donors 3. A food donor shall not incur any civil liability in respect of any personal injury or disease suffered by any person, or the death of any person, resulting from the consumption of the food donated or distributed by the food donor unless it can be proven that— (a) the personal injury, disease or death was caused by the negligence or the willful misconduct of the food donor; (b) the food donor has not complied with any requirement in relation to food safety and food hygiene under any written law before donating or distributing the food; (c) the food was not safe for consumption at the time it was donated or distributed to any person; and (d) the donation or distribution of food was not made in good faith. Hakcipta Pencetak H PERCETAKAN NASIONAL MALAYSIA BERHAD Semua Hak Terpelihara. Tiada mana-mana bahagian jua daripada penerbitan ini boleh diterbitkan semula atau disimpan di dalam ben tuk yang boleh diperolehi semula atau disiarkan dalam sebarang bentuk dengan apa jua cara elektronik, mekanikal, fotokopi, rakaman dan/ atau sebaliknya tanpa mendapat izin daripada Percetakan Nasional Malaysia Berhad (Pencetak kepada Kerajaan Malaysia yang dilantik). DICETAK OLEH PERCETAKAN NASIONA L MALAYSIA BERHAD, KUALA LUMPUR BAGI PIHAK DAN DENGAN PERINT AH KERAJAAN MALA YSIA