LAWS OF MALAYSIA ONLINE VERSION OF UPDATED TEXT OF REPRINT Act 417 MALAYSIAN COMBINED CADET FORCE ACT 1967 As at 1 December 2011 

2 MALAYSIA N COMBINE D CADET FORCE ACT 1967 First enacte d … ... ... ... … … … 1967 (Act No. 68 of 1967) Revised … … … … … … … … 1989 (Act 417 w.e.f 28 Decembe r 1989) PREVIOU S REPRINTS First Reprin t ... ... ... ... ... 2001 Second Reprin t ... ... ... ... ... 2006

 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 417 MALAYSIA N COMBINE D CADET FORCE ACT 1967 ARRANGEMEN T OF SECTIONS Section 1. Short title and application 2. Interpretation 3. Establishmen t of a Combine d Cadet Force 4. Units of the Force 5. Advisor y Committee 6. Appointmen t and enrolment 7. Officer s appointe d to the Force 8. Commandin g officer s and cadet officers 9. Sub-unit commanders 10. Ministe r may dispens e with the servic e of a cadet 11. Regulations 12. Rules 13. Standin g orders 14. Servic e outsid e Malaysia 15. Delegatio n of power s of the Yang di-Pertua n Agong 16. Expenses 17. Repeal

 

5 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 417 MALAYSIA N COMBINE D CADET FORCE ACT 1967 An Act to provide for the establishment of the Malaysian Combined Cadet Force and for matters incidental thereto. [1 Januar y 1968] BE IT ENACTE D by the Seri Paduk a Bagind a Yang di- Pertuan Agong with the advice and consen t of the Dewan Negar a and Dewan Rakyat in Parliamen t assembled , and by the authorit y of the same, as follows: Short title and application 1. (1) This Act may be cited as the Malaysia n Combine d Cadet Force Act 1967. (2) This Act shall apply throughout Malaysia. Interpretation 2. In this Act, unles s the contex t otherwis e requires — “cadet officer” means a person appointed to be a cadet officer in accordance with section 8; 

6 Laws of Malaysi a ACT 417 “Force ” means the Malaysia n Combine d Cadet Force raised under sectio n 3; “officer ” means a person appointe d by the Yang di-Pertuan Agong to be an office r in accordanc e with sectio n 7; “member ” means any officer , cadet office r or cadet who has been duly appointe d or enrolle d in the Force, as the case may be; and “Minister ” means the Ministe r of Education. Establishmen t of a Combine d Cadet Force 3. (1) There shall be raised and maintaine d for the purpos e of inculcating in youths a sense of discipline, responsibilit y and adventure and of instillin g into such youths the qualitie s of leadershi p and good citizenship , a force of volunteer s to be called “Pasuka n Kadet Bersat u Malaysia ” or, in English , “Malaysia n Combine d Cadet Force”. (2) The Force shall — (a) in relatio n to administratio n and discipline , be under the genera l directio n and supervisio n of the Yang di- Pertuan Agong; and (b) in relatio n to training , the provisio n of arms, accoutrements and such other militar y store s and equipmen t as may be necessary , be advise d and assiste d by the Armed Forces Council. Units of the Force 4. (1) The Force shall consis t of such units and sub-units as the Ministe r may with the advice of the Armed Force s Counci l from time to time constitut e and establish ; and the Ministe r may with such advic e at any time disband any unit or sub-unit or amalgamat e any unit or sub-unit with any other. 

 Malaysia n Combine d Cadet Force 7 (2) Every unit constitute d and establishe d under this sectio n shall be known by such name or title as the Ministe r may approve ; and the Ministe r may at any time alter or amend such name or title. Advisor y Committee 5. The Ministe r may after consultatio n with the Armed Forces Council appoint an Advisory Committee to advise on the administration of the Force and on such other matter s as the Ministe r may specify. Appointmen t and enrolment 6. Any Malaysia n citize n shall be eligibl e to be appointe d as an office r or as a cadet officer , or to be enrolle d as a cadet in the Force: Provide d that a Commonwealt h citize n may, notwithstandin g that he is not also a Malaysia n citize n be appointed to or enrolle d in the Force , if the Ministe r consider s such actio n to be necessar y or expedient. Officer s appointe d to the Force 7. (1) Officer s shal l be appointe d to the Forc e by the Yang di-Pertua n Agong who may from time to time reduc e in rank, promot e or advanc e in rank such officers. (2) The Yang di-Pertuan Agong may grant honorar y appointments as officer s in the Force to such person s as he deems fit. (3) The Yang di-Pertua n Agong may withou t assignin g any reaso n therefo r cancel any appointmen t or grant made under this section. 

8 Laws of Malaysi a ACT 417 Commandin g officer s and cadet officers 8. The Ministe r may with the advic e of the Armed Forces Council appoin t officer s to be commandin g officer s of units of the Force or to be cadet officer s in the Force ; and the Ministe r may, without assignin g any reaso n therefor , cance l any such appointment. Sub-unit commanders 9. Commandin g officer s may with the approva l of the Minister appoin t officer s to be sub-unit commanders. Ministe r may dispens e with the servic e of a cadet 10. The Ministe r may at any time dispens e with the service s of any cadet. Regulations 11. (1) The Yang di-Pertua n Agong may make regulation s to carry out the purpose s of this Act: (2) In particular , and withou t prejudic e to the generalit y of the foregoin g power , such regulation s may prescribe — (a) the organization , administratio n and disciplin e of the Force; (b) the age and other qualification s to be require d of members; (c) the appointment , seniority, promotion and ad vancement or reduction in rank of officers; (d) the manne r in which and the condition s subjec t to which person s desirin g to be enrolle d in the Force may offer themselve s for enrolmen t and the form of declaratio n to be taken by such persons; 

 Malaysia n Combine d Cadet Force 9 (e) the seniority, promotio n and advancemen t or reductio n in rank of cadet officer s and cadets; (f) the extent of servic e require d of members , which service may, subject to section 14, include service outside Malaysia; and (g) the remuneratio n of members. Rules 12. The Ministe r may, after consultatio n with the Armed Forces Council , make rules respecting — (a) the extent of the trainin g to be undergon e and the standards to be achieve d therei n from time to time by members; (b) attendanc e for trainin g and at course s of instructio n by members; (c) the uniform , arms and equipmen t of the Force ; and (d) securit y clearanc e of members. Standin g orders 13. (1) The Armed Force s Counci l may make standin g order s not inconsisten t with this Act or any regulation s or rules made thereunder respectin g the genera l organization , administratio n and trainin g of the Force. (2) In particular , and withou t prejudic e to the generalit y of the foregoin g power , such standin g order s may provid e for— (a) the issue and care of arms, accoutr ements , ammunition, supplies , clothin g and equipment; (b) returns , books and forms of correspondence ; and 

10 Laws of Malaysi a ACT 417 (c) the trainin g and inspectio n of the Force and the holdin g of camps and exercises. Servic e outsid e Malaysia 14. No membe r shall , withou t his consent in writing , and in the case of a membe r who is under 21 years of age, withou t the consent of his parent s or guardian , be require d to serve outsid e the territorial limit s of Malaysia. Delegatio n of power s of the Yang di-Pertua n Agong 15. The Yang di-Pertuan Agong may from time to time by notification in the Gazett e delegat e to the Ministe r all or any of the powers conferre d upon him by this Act, exceptin g only the power s conferred by sectio n 11. Expenses 16. There shall be defraye d out of moneys provide d by Parliament any expenditur e incurre d under or by virtu e of this Act. Repeal 17. The Federatio n of Malaya Air Trainin g Corps Ordinanc e 1950 [F.M. Ord. 69 of 1950], and the Federatio n of Malay a Cadet Corps Ordinanc e 1952 [F.M. Ord. 46 of 1952], are hereb y repealed: Provide d that— (a) all subsidiar y legislatio n made under the Ordinance s hereby repealed and in force immediately before the commencement of this Act shall , in so far as it is not inconsisten t with this Act, remai n in force and apply to all member s of the Force until other provision s are

 Malaysia n Combine d Cadet Force 11 made under this Act; (b) all person s who immediatel y befor e the commencemen t of this Act were officer s commissione d or person s enrolled under the Ordinance s so repeale d shall, with their consent and with the approva l of the appropriat e authority , be deeme d to be officer s appointe d or person s enrolle d under this Act, as the case may be; and the officer s and persons so deeme d to be appointe d and enrolled , respectively, shall have a rank and seniorit y not less favourabl e than thos e accorde d to the m immediatel y befor e th e commencemen t of this Act. For the purpose of paragraph (b) the expression “appropriate authority” in relatio n to any approva l to be given under that paragrap h means the Yang di-Pertuan Agong in the case of officer s commissioned, and the Ministe r in the case of persons enrolled , under the Ordinances repeale d aforesaid. 

12 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 417 MALAYSIA N COMBINE D CADET FORCE ACT 1967 LIST OF AMENDMENTS Amendin g law Short title In force from − NIL − 

 13 Laws of Malaysi a ACT 417 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 417 MALAYSIA N COMBINE D CADET FORCE ACT 1967 LIST OF SECTION S AMENDED Sectio n Amendin g authorit y In force from − NIL −