LAWS OF MALAYSIA ONLINE VERSION OF UPDATED TEXT OF REPRINT Act 4 EMPLOYEES’ SOCIAL SECURITY ACT 1969 As at 1 September 2022 This text is ONLY AN UPDATED TEXT of the Employees’ Social Security Act 1969 by the Attorney Gene ral’s Chambers. Unless and until reprinted pursuant to the powers of the Commissioner of Law Revision under subsection 14(1) of the Revision of Laws Act 1968 [Act 1], this text is NOT AN AUTHENTIC TEXT.

2 EMPLOYEES’ SOCIAL SECURITY ACT 1969 Date of Royal Assent … … … … 2 April 1969 Date of publication in the Gazette … … … … 10 April 1969 English text to be authoritative … … … … P.U. (B) 80/1969 Latest amendment made by Act A1658 which came into operation on … … … … 1 September 2022 PREVIOUS REPRINTS First Reprint … … … … 1992 Second Reprint … … … … 1999 Third Reprint … … … … 2006 

3 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 4 EMPLOYEES’ SOCIAL SECURITY ACT 1969 ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS PART I PRELIMINARY Section 1. Short title, extent, commencement and application 2. Definitions PART II INSURABILITY AND CONTRIBUTIONS 3. Applicability 4. Registration of industries 5. All employees to be insured 6. Contributions 7. Principal employer to pay contributions in the first instance 8. Recovery of contribution from immediate employer 9. General provisions as to payment of contributions 9A. Contributions where industry or employee is not insured or registered 9B. Validation of contribution collected 10. Method of payment of contribution 11. Employers to furnish returns and maintain registers in certain cases 12. Inspectors, their functions and duties 12A. Powers of examination and search 

4 Laws of Malaysia ACT 4 Section 12B. Obstruction to exercise of powers by an Inspector 12C. Power to examine persons 13. Determination of contributions in certain cases 13A. Power of Director General to ask for information and application for search warrant 14. Recovery of contributions 14A. Interest on contribution in arrears PART III BENEFITS 15. Benefits 16. When person considered as suffering from invalidity 17. When insured person eligible for invalidity pension 17A. Qualifying conditions for survivors’ pension 18. (Deleted) 19. Payment of invalidity pension 20. Invalidity pension 20A. Survivors’ pension 20B. (Deleted) 21. Invalidity grant 22. Disablement benefit 23. Presumption as to accident arising in the course of employment 24. Accidents while travelling 25. Accidents happening while meeting emergency 26. Dependants’ benefit 27. (Deleted) 28. Occupational diseases 29. Funeral benefit 30. Constant-attendance allowance 

Employees’ Social Security 5 Section 31. Liability of employer and his servant 32. Determination of question of invalidity or disablement 32A. Determination of occupational diseases 33. References to medical boards and appeals to appellate medical board 33A. Insured person dies before medical board examination 34. Review of decisions by medical board or appellate medical board 35. Review of invalidity pension 36. Review of dependants’ benefit 37. Medical benefit 38. Scale of medical benefit 39. Establishment and maintenance of hospitals, etc. 40. Organization’s power to co -operate with existing institutions or promote measures for health, welfare, etc., of insured persons 41. Benefit not assignable or attachable 42. (Deleted) 43. Persons not to commute cash benefits 44. Persons not entitled to receive benefits in certain cases 45. Claimant of disablement benefit or invalidity pension to observe conditions 46. Recipients of disablement benefit to observe conditions 47. (Deleted) 48. Organization’s right where a principal employer fails or neglects to pay any contribution 49. Suspension of invalidity pension 50. Repayment of benefit improperly received 51. Payment of amount of benefit outstanding at the time of the death of the insured person 52. Employer not to reduce wages, etc. 53. Employer not to dismiss or punish employee during period of temporary disablement 54. Claim for benefits 55. Reporting of change in condition, etc. 56. Discretion to compute the qualifying period and the rate of monthly invalidity pension 

6 Laws of Malaysia ACT 4 Section 57. Facilities for physical or vocational rehabilitation 57A. Education benefit 57B. Organization to be responsible for the recove ry and collection of repayments of educational loans 57C. Appointment of collection agents PART IV ADMINISTRATION, FINANCE AND AUDIT 58. Administration of the Social Security Scheme 59. Chief Executive Officer 59A. The Social Security Organization 59B. Establishment of the Board 59C. Minister shall appoint any person to act as Chairman 59D. Sixth Schedule to apply to Board 59E. Cessation of membership of Board 59F. Disqualification 59G. Application of the Public Authorities Protection Act 1948 59H. Public servants and public officers 59I. Board to give effect to Minister’s directions 59J. Delegation of power 59K. Administrative control of officers and servants by Director General 59L. Appointment of officers and servants 59M. Setting up divisions, regional offices, 59N. Power to dispose of staff questions 59O. Power to make staff rules 59P. Committees 59Q. Disciplinary Committee 59R. Discipline of officers 59S. Establishment of Disciplinary Appeal Board 59T. Power to make disciplinary rules 59U. Imposition of surcharge 

Employees’ Social Security 7 Section 59V. Establishment of Promotion Board 59W. Establishment of Promotion Appeal Board 60. (Deleted) 61. (Deleted) 62. (Deleted) 63. (Deleted) 64. Fees and allowances 65. (Deleted) 66. (Deleted) 67. (Deleted) 68. Social Security Fund 69. Administration of the Fund 70. Acceptance of grants, donations, etc. 71. Purposes for which the Fund may be expended 72. Expenditure on administration 72A. Withdrawal from Fund for loans or other financing facilities 73. Administrative expenditure Government’s responsibility 74. Holding of property, etc. 74A. Power of the Organization to establish or take over companies 75. Investment of Funds 75A. Investment Panel 75B. (Deleted) 76. Raising of loans 77. Budget estimates 78. Accounts 79. Audit 80. Annual report 81. Annual report and audited accounts 82. Valuation of assets and liabilities 

8 Laws of Malaysia ACT 4 PART V ADJUDICATION OF DISPUTE AND CLAIMS Section 83. Constitution of Social Security Appellate Board 84. Matters to be decided by the Board 85. Institution of proceedings, etc. 86. Commencement of proceedings 87. Powers of Social Security Appellate Board 88. Appearance by legal practitioners, etc. 89. Benefit not admissible unless claimed in time 90. Reference to High Court 91. Appeal 92. Stay of payment pending appeal PART VI PENALTIES 93. Punishment for false information 94. Punishment for failure to pay contributions, etc. 94A. Court’s order in respect of contributions due and payable to the Organization 94B. Trial for more than one offence 94C. Copy of entry to be prima facie evidence 95. Prosecution 95A. Compounding of offences PART VII MISCELLANEOUS 96. Insured person not entitled to more than one benefit 96A. Dependant not entitled to both survivors’ pension and dependants’ benefit for the same period 

Employees’ Social Security 9 Section 97. Exemption of industry or class of industries 98. Exemption of persons or class of persons 99. Organization to make representation 100. Exemption of industries belonging to Government or local authority 101. Exemption from one or more provisions of the Act 102. Contributions, etc., due to Organization to have priority over other debts 103. Exercise of powers and functions of the Organization 103A. Disposal of documents after more than three years 104. (Deleted) 105. Power of the Minister to make regulations 106. Duty of Board to review benefits 106A. Rates of benefit 107. Addition of benefits 108. Power to remove difficulties 108A. Joint and several liability of directors 109. Recovery of contribution, etc. 110. Powers of Director General 111. Organization to deal with authorized person 112. Benefit for two or more successive accidents 112A. Electronic submission of documents FIRST SCHEDULE SECOND SCHEDULE THIRD SCHEDULE FOURTH SCHEDULE FIFTH SCHEDULE SIXTH SCHEDULE SEVENTH SCHEDULE EIGHT SCHEDULE NINTH SCHEDULE TENTH SCHEDULE 

 

11 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 4 EMPLOYEES’ SOCIAL SECURITY ACT 1969 An Act to provide social security in certain contingencies and to make provision for certain other matters in relation to it. [See Appendix] BE IT ENACTED by the Seri Paduka Baginda Yang di -Pertuan Agong with the advice and consent of the Dewan Negara and Dewan Rakyat in Parliament assembled, and by the authority of the same, as follows: PART I PRELIMINARY Short title, extent, commencement and application 1. (1) This Act may be cited as t he Employees’ Social Security Act 1969. (2) This Act shall apply throughout Malaysia. (3) This Act shall come into force on such date as the Minister may, by notification in the Gazette, appoint and different dates may be appointed for different provisions of this Act and for different States or for different parts of it. 

12 Laws of Malaysia ACT 4 Definitions 2. In this Act unless there is anything repugnant in the subject or context— (1) (Deleted by Act A675); (1A) “Board”, except in Part V, means the Social Security Organization Board established under section 59B; (1B) “child” means a child of the deceased insured person— (a) who is a child under twenty-one years of age and includes— (i) a posthumous child, a dependent stepchild and an illegitimate child of the insured person; and (ii) a child adopted by the insured person under any written law relating to adoption or under any custom or usage, on satisfactory proof of such adoption; and (b) who is a child of any age and is mentally retarded or physically incapacitated and is incapable of supporting himself. (2) “contribution” means the sum of money payable to the Organization by the principal employer in respect of an insured employee and includes any amount payable by or on behalf of the employee in accordance with this Act; (3) “dependant” means any of the following relatives of a deceased insured person, namely: (a) a widow or widower or a child; and (b) if there is no widow or widower or child— (i) a daughter, if married and a minor, or if widowed and a minor; 

Employees’ Social Security 13 (ii) an unmarried minor brother or sister or a widowed minor sister; (iii) a widowed daughter-in-law; (iv) a minor child of a pre-deceased son; (v) a minor child of a pre -deceased daughter wher e no father of the child is alive; (vi) a parent; or (vii) a grandparent if no parent of the insured person is alive. (c) (Deleted by Act A814). Provided that the Minister may give such direction as appears to him to be necessary for the removal of hardship to any o ther relative of a deceased insured person including an invalid widower; (4) “duly appointed” means appointed in accordance with this Act or with the rules or regulations made; (5) Subject to section 3, “employee” means any person who is employed for wages under a contract of service or apprenticeship with an employer, whether the contract is expressed or implied or is oral or in writing, on or in connection with the work of an industry to which this Act applies and— (i) who is directly employed by the p rincipal employer on any work of, or incidental or preliminary to or connected with the work of, the industry, whether such work is done by the employee on the premises of the industry or elsewhere; or (ii) who is employed by or through an immediate employer o n the premises of the industry or under the supervision of the principal employer or his agent on work which is ordinarily part of the work of the industry or which is preliminary to the 

14 Laws of Malaysia ACT 4 work carried on in or incidental to the purpose of the industry; or (iii) whose services are temporarily lent or let on hire to the principal employer by the person with whom the person whose services are so lent or let on hire has entered into a contract of service; (6) “employment injury” means a personal injury to an emplo yee caused by accident or an occupational disease arising out of and in the course of his employment in an industry to which this Act applies; (6A) “Fund” means the Social Security Fund established under section 68; (7) (Deleted by Act A590); (7A) (Deleted by Act A675); (8) “Government” means the Government of Malaysia; (9) “immediate employer” in relation to employees employed by or through him, means a person who has undertaken the execution on the premises where the principal employer is carrying on his trade or business, profession, vocation, occupation or calling, or under the supervision of the principal employer or his agent, of the whole or any part of any work which is ordinarily part of the work of the trade or business, profession, vocation, occupation or calling, of the principal employer or is preliminary to the work carried on in, or incidental to the purpose of, any such trade or business, profession, vocation, occupation or calling, and includes a person by whom the services of an employee who has entered into a contract of service with him are temporarily lent or let on hire to the principal employer; (10) “industry” means any business, trade, undertaking, manufacture or calling of employers, and includes any calling, service, employment, handicraft or industrial occupation or avocation of employees; 

Employees’ Social Security 15 (10A) “Inspector” means an Inspector appointed under section 12 and includes the Director General and every Deputy Director General; (11) “insured person” means a person who is or was an employee in respect of whom contributions are, were or could be payable under this Act, notwithstanding that such industry or employee was not so registered, so long as the industry was one to which this Act applies; (12) “Minister” means the Minister charged with responsibility for human resources; (13) “minor” means a person who has not attained twenty-one years of age; (14) “month” means a month reckoned according to the Gregorian calendar; (15) The expressions “occupier” and “factory” shall h ave respectively the meanings assigned to them in the Factories and Machinery Act 1967 [Act 139]; (16) “Organization” means the Social Security Organization; (17) “permanent partial disablement” means such disablement of a permanent nature, as reduces the earning capacity of an employee in every employment which he was able to undertake at the time of the accident resulting in the disablement: Provided that every injury specified in Part II of the Second Schedule shall be deemed to result in permanent partial disablement; (18) “permanent total disablement” means such disablement of a permanent nature, as disables an employee for all work which he was capable of performing at the time of the accident resulting in such disablement: Provided that permanent total disablement shall be deemed to result from every injury specified in Part I of the Second Schedule or from any combination of injuries specified in Part II of it where the aggregate percentage of the loss of earning capacity, as specified in the 

16 Laws of Malaysia ACT 4 said Part II against those injuries, amounts to one hundred per cent or more; (19) “principal employer” means the owner of an industry or the person with whom an employee has entered into a contract of service or apprenticeship and includes— (a) a manager, agent or person responsible for the payment of salary or wages to an employee; (b) the occupier of a factory; (c) the legal representative of a deceased owner or occupier; (d) any government in Malaysia, department of any such government, local authority or statutory body and, where an employee is employed with any such government, department, authority or body or with any officer on behalf of any such government, department, authority or body, the officer under whom such employee is working: Provided that no suc h officer shall be personally liable under this Act for anything in good faith done or omitted to be done by him as an officer of such employer; (20) “regulation” means a regulation made by the Minister; (21) (Deleted by Act A450); (22) “Schedule” means a Schedule to this Act; (23) “temporary disablement” means a condition resulting from an employment injury which requires medical treatment and renders an employee, as a result of such injury, temporarily incapable of doing the work which he was doing prior to or at the time of the injury; (24) “wages” means all remuneration payable in money by an employer to an employee including any payment in respect of leave, holidays, overtime, and extra work on holidays but does not include— 

Employees’ Social Security 17 (a) any contribution payable by the principal employer or the immediate employer to any pension fund or provident fund, or under this Act; (b) any travelling allowance or the value of any travelling concession; (c) any sum paid to an employee to defray special expenses incurred as a result of his employment; (d) any gratuity payable on discharge or retirement; (e) annual bonus; (f) any other remuneration as may be prescribed. PART II INSURABILITY AND CONTRIBUTIONS Applicability 3. (1) This Act shall apply to all industries having one or more employees. (2) In this section, “employees” include any employee employed by the immediate employer. (3) This Act shall not apply to persons described in the First Schedule. (4) The Minister may, by order published in the Gazette, amend the First Schedule. 

18 Laws of Malaysia ACT 4 Registration of industries 4. Every industry to which this Act applies shall be registered with the Organization within such time and in such manner as may be specified in the regulations. All employees to be insured 5. (1) Subject to this Act, all employees in industries to which this Act applies irrespective of the amount of wages shall be insured in the manner provided by this Act. (2) Notwithstanding subsection (1), if the wages of an employee at any time exceed *five thousand ringgit a month, his wages shall for the purposes of this Act be deemed to be **five thousand ringgit a month. Contributions 6. (1) The contribution payable under this Act in respect of an employee shall comprise contribution payable by the employer (hereinafter referred to as the employer’s contribution) and contribution payable by the employee (hereinafter referred to as the employee’s contribution) and shall be paid to the Organization. (2) The contributions shall fall into the following two categorie s, namely: (a) the contributions of the first category, being the contributions payable by or on behalf of the employees insured against the contingencies of invalidity and employment injury; and  *NOTE—Previously “four thousand ringgit”–see the Employees’ Social Security (Amendment) Act 2022 [Act A1658]. **NOTE—Previously “four thousand ringgit”–see the Employees’ Social Security (Amendment) Act 2022 [Act A1658]. 

Employees’ Social Security 19 (b) the contributions of the second category, being the contributions payable by or on behalf of employees insured only against the contingency of employment injury. (3) The contributions of the various categories shall be paid at the rates specified in the Third Schedule. (4) The contributions of the first category shall be shared by the employer and the employee in the ratio specified in Part I of the Third Schedule. (5) The contributions of the second category shall be paid wholly by the employer. (6) The Minister, in consultation with the Minister of Finance may, by notification in the Gazette, amend, add to, vary or revise the rates of contributions specified in the Third Schedule. (7) A month shall be the unit in respect of which all contributions shall be payable under this Act. (8) The contributions pay able in respect of each month shall ordinarily fall due on the last day of the month, and where an employee is employed by an employer for part of a month the contribution in respect of such month shall fall due on the last day of employment by such employer in that month. (9) Where two or more contributions are paid in respect of the same insured person for the same month, they shall be counted as a single monthly contribution. (10) In computing the average of assumed wage for the purpose of calculating the rate of pension or benefit payable under this Act, two or more monthly contributions paid in respect of the same insured person for the same month shall be treated as a single monthly contribution corresponding to the aggregate of the different assum ed monthly wages to which the different contributions correspond: Provided that where the aggregate of the different assumed monthly wages to which the different contributions correspond exceed the 

20 Laws of Malaysia ACT 4 maximum assumed monthly wage, the assumed monthly wage shall be such maximum monthly wage. Principal employer to pay contributions in the first instance 7. (1) The principal employer shall pay in respect of every employee, whether directly employed by him or through an immediate employer, both the employer’s contribution and the employee’s contribution. (2) Notwithstanding anything contained in any other written law but subject to this Act and the regulations, if any, the principal employer shall, in the case of an employee directly employed by him, be entitled to recover from the employee the employee’s contribution by deduction from his wages and not otherwise: Provided that no such deduction shall be made from any wages other than such as relate to the period or part of the period in respect of which the contribution is payable, or in excess of the sum representing the employee’s contribution for the period. (3) Notwithstanding any contract to the contrary, neither the principal employer nor the immediate employer shall be entitled to deduct the employ er’s contribution from any wages payable to an employee or otherwise to recover it from him. (4) Any sum deducted by the principal employer from wages under this Act shall be deemed to have been entrusted to him by the employee for the purpose of paying the contribution in respect of which it was deducted. Recovery of contribution from immediate employer 8. (1) A principal employer, who has paid contribution in respect of an employee employed by or through an immediate employer, shall be entitled to recover the amount of the contribution so paid (that is to say the employer’s contribution as well as the employee’s contribution, if any) from the immediate employer, either by deduction from any 

Employees’ Social Security 21 amount payable to him by the principal employer under any con tract, or as a debt payable by the immediate employer. (2) In the case referred to in subsection (1), the immediate employer shall be entitled to recover the employee’s contribution from the employee employed by or through him by deduction from wages and not otherwise, subject to the conditions specified in the proviso of subsection 7(2). General provisions as to payment of contributions 9. (1) Contribution (both the employer’s contribution and the employee’s contribution) shall be payable by the princ ipal employer for each month in respect of the whole or part of which wages are payable to the employee and not otherwise. (2) (Deleted by Act A675). Contributions where industry or employee is not insured or registered 9A. Contributions shall be paya ble in respect of employees from the month they enter into employment and such contributions are payable even though the industry to which this Act applies or the employees or both have not been insured or registered with the Organization: Provided that an employer who has paid arrears of contributions in respect of an employee will only be entitled to recover from the wages payable notwithstanding the proviso to subsection 7(2) the employee’s share of the contributions due within the last preceding six m onths prior to the date of payment. Validation of contribution collected 9B. Any contribution collected by the Organization for an employee who was not registered for purposes of insurance under this Act for 

22 Laws of Malaysia ACT 4 any period prior to 1 July 1987 is hereby validated and declared to have been lawfully collected. Method of payment of contribution 10. Subject to this Act, the Minister may make regulations for any matter relating or incidental to the payment and collection of contributions payable under this Act and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power such regulations may provide for— (a) the manner and time of payment of contributions; (b) the payment of contributions either in cash or cheque or any other mode of payment; (c) the date by which evidence of contributions having been paid is to be received by the Organization; (d) the entry in an approved manner in or upon books or forms of particulars of contributions paid and benefits distributed in case of the insured persons to whom such books or form s relate; and (e) the issue, sale, custody, production, inspection and delivery of materials, books or forms or the replacement of materials, books or forms which have been lost, destroyed or defaced. Employers to furnish returns and maintain registers in c ertain cases 11. (1) Every principal and immediate employer shall submit to the Organization or to such officer of the Organization as it may direct such returns in such form and containing such particulars relating to persons employed by him or to any in dustry in respect of which he is the principal or immediate employer as may be specified in the regulations made in this behalf. 

Employees’ Social Security 23 (2) Where, in respect of any industry, the Organization has reason to believe that a return should have been submitted under subsection (1) but has not been so submitted, the Organization may require any person in charge of the industry to furnish such particulars as it may consider necessary for the purpose of enabling the Organization to decide whether the industry is an indu stry to which this Act applies. (3) Every principal and immediate employer shall maintain such registers or records in respect of his industry as may be required by regulations made in this behalf. Inspectors, their functions and duties 12. (1) The Minister may appoint such persons as Inspectors, as he thinks fit, for the purposes of this Act. (2) Subject to subsection (3), an Inspector appointed under subsection (1) shall have all the powers, functions and duties conferred under this Act. (3) An Inspector shall be subject to the direction and control of the Director General or of such other officer or servant of the Organization as may be authorized by the Director General to act on behalf of the Director General, and of any other Inspector superio r to the Inspector in rank, and shall exercise his powers, perform his functions and discharge his duties under this Act in compliance with such directions, instructions, conditions, restrictions or limitations as the Director General, or an officer or servant of the Organization authorized to act on behalf of the Director General or any other Inspector superior to the Inspector in rank, may specify orally or in writing, either generally, or in any particular case or circumstances. (4) The Director General and Deputy Directors General shall have all the powers of an Inspector. 

24 Laws of Malaysia ACT 4 Powers of examination and search 12A. Subject to any regulations made under section 105, an Inspector may at any reasonable time— (a) make such examination and inquiry as may be necessary for ascertaining whether this Act or the regulations or rules made thereunder are being or have been complied with; (b) at any reasonable time enter any premises or place occupied by any principal employer or immediate employer for the purpose of such examination and inquiry; (c) examine the principal employer or immediate employer or his agent or servant or any person found in such premises or place or any person whom the Inspector has reasonable cause to believe to be or have been an employee; (d) make copies of or take extracts from any register, books or other documents maintained in such premises or place; and (e) exercise such other powers as may be necessary for carrying this Act into effect. Obstruction to exercise of powers by an Inspector 12B. (1) No person shall— (a) refuse any Inspector exercising his power under section 12A access to any premises or place or any part thereof; (b) assault, obstruct, hinder or delay such Inspector in effecting any entrance which he is entitled to effect; (c) fail to comply with any lawful demands of an Inspector execution of his powers under section 12A; 

Employees’ Social Security 25 (d) refuse to give to an Inspector any information which may reasonably be required of such person; (e) fail to produce to, or conceal or attempt to conceal from, an Inspector, any property, book or other document including electronic records in relation to which the Inspector has reasonable grounds for suspecting that an offence has been or is being committed under this Act; or (f) furnish as true to an Inspector, information which he knows or has reason to believe to be false. (2) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence. Power to examine persons 12C. (1) An Inspector making any examination or inquiry under section 12A may examine orally any person whom he believes to be acquainted with the facts and circumstances of the case and for such purpose summon any such person to attend at the time and place specified in such summons. (2) The person examined under subsection (1) shall be legally bound to answer all questions relating to such case put to him by the examining Inspector, but such person may refuse to answer any question the answer to which would have a tendency to expose him to a criminal charge or penalty or forfeiture. (3) A person making a statement under this section shall be legally bound to state the truth, whether or not such statement is made wholly or partly in answer to question. (4) An Inspector examining a person under subsection (1) shall first inform that person of subsections (2) and (3). (5) A statement made by any person under this section shall, whenever possible, be taken down in writing and signed by the person making it or affixed with his thumb-print, after it has been read to him 

26 Laws of Malaysia ACT 4 in the language in which he made it and after he has been given an opportunity to make any corrections he may wish. Determination of contributions in certain cases 13. (1) An Inspector may assess any contributions which are due from any principal or immediate employer based on any informa tion available, if the employer— (a) fails to keep or maintain any statement, particulars, register book or any record pertaining to each employee as required to be kept or maintained by him under this Act; or (b) fails or refuses to submit any statement, partic ulars, register book or record pertaining to each employee as required under this Act. (2) The assessment made under subsection (1) shall be sufficient proof of the Organization’s claim for the recovery of any contributions under section 84 or for the recovery of the amount determined by such assessment as a debt due to the Organization under section 14. (3) Any assessment made under this section shall be served either personally or by registered post. Power of Director General to ask for information and application for search warrant 13A. (1) For the purpose of obtaining full information for ascertaining whether any person is liable to pay contributions under this Act, the Director General or any Inspector appointed by the Director General for the purpose may by notice in writing require any person— (a) to furnish to the Director General or such Inspector within the time specified in the notice any information or particulars as specified in the notice; or 

Employees’ Social Security 27 (b) to attend personally before the Director General or such Inspector and to produce for examination all books, records and other documents including electronic records which the Director General or such Inspector deems necessary; or (c) to furnish the information or particulars in accordance with paragraph (a) and also to attend in accordance with paragraph (b). (2) Any person who fails to comply with subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence. (3) Whenever it appears to any Magistrate, upon written information on oath, and after any enquiry he may think necessary, that there are reasonable grounds for suspecting that there are on any particular premises any book, account, record (including electronic record) or other document, the production of which has been required pursuant to subsection (1) and whic h has not been produced in compliance with that requirement, such Magistrate may issue a warrant authorizing the Director General or any person named therein with or without assistance— (a) to search the premises and to break open and search any cupboard, dra wer, chest, trunk, box, package or other receptacle, whether a fixture or not, in the premises; and (b) to take possession of, or secure against interference, any book, account, record (including electronic record) or other document that appears to be a book, account, record or other document the production of which was so required. Recovery of contributions 14. Any contribution or interest payable under this Act may be recovered as a debt due to the Organization. 

28 Laws of Malaysia ACT 4 Interest on contribution in arrears 14A. Where the amount of the monthly contributions or part of any monthly contributions which are payable by any employer under section 6 is not paid within such period as may be prescribed by the regulations, the employer shall be liable to pay interest to be credited to the Organization on such amount at such rate as may be prescribed by the regulations in respect of any period during which such amount remains unpaid. PART III BENEFITS Benefits 15. Subject to this Act, the insured persons, their depend ants or the persons hereinafter mentioned, as the case may be, shall be entitled to the following benefits, namely: (a) periodical payments to an insured person in case of invalidity certified by a duly appointed medical board or by an authority specified in this behalf by the regulations (hereinafter referred to as invalidity pension); (b) periodical payments to an insured person suffering from disablement as a result of an employment injury sustained as an employee under this Act and certified to be eligible to such payments by an authority specified in this behalf by the regulations (hereinafter referred to as disablement benefit); (c) periodical payments to such dependants of an insured person who dies as a result of an employment injury sustained as an employee under this Act (hereinafter referred to as dependants’ benefit); (d) payments for funeral benefit or expenses, as the case may be, to the person mentioned in section 29 on the death of an 

Employees’ Social Security 29 insured person as a result of an employment injury sustained as an employee under this Act or while he was in receipt of disablement benefit under this Act, or of an insured person suffering from invalidity while in receipt of invalidity pension under this Act, or of an insured person who has not attained sixty years of age but has completed a full or reduced qualifying period mentioned in subsections 29(3) and (4) (hereinafter referred to as funeral benefit); (e) periodical payments to an insured person who is in receipt of invalidity pension or disablement benefit if and so lon g as he is so severely incapacitated or disabled as to constantly require the personal attendance of another person (hereinafter referred to as constant attendance allowance): Provided that the existence of the degree of incapacity qualifying an invalid or disabled insured person for constant-attendance allowance shall be verified by a duly appointed medical board or the appellate medical board or any other authority specified in this behalf by the regulations, in such manner as is prescribed by the regulations; (f) medical treatment for and attendance on insured persons suffering from disablement as a result of an employment injury sustained as an employee under this Act (hereinafter referred to as medical benefit); (g) periodical payments to dependants of an insured person who dies while in receipt of invalidity pension, or of an insured person who has not attained sixty years of age but has completed a full or reduced qualifying period for survivors’ pension mentioned in subsections 17A(2) and (3) (hereinafter referred to as survivors’ pension). 

30 Laws of Malaysia ACT 4 When person considered as suffering from invalidity 16. (1) An insured person shall be considered as suffering from invalidity, if, by reason of a specific morbid condition of permanent nature, he is incapable of engaging in any substantially gainful activity. (2) For the purposes of subsection (1)— (a) a morbid condition shall be deemed to be of permanent nature if it is either incurable or is not likely to be cured; (b) a person shall be deemed to be incapable of en gaging in substantially gainful activity, if in consequence of the specific morbid condition of sickness or infirmity, he is no longer capable of earning, by work corresponding to his strength and physical ability which, in view of his training and former occupation, might reasonably be assigned to him at the place of his employment or at a similar place in the neighbourhood or in the same district, one -third of the customary earnings of a mentally and physically sound person with similar qualifications and training; (c) in determining whether the claimant is suffering from invalidity, account shall be taken of any permanent improvement in the state of his invalidity which results or is expected to result from such measures of physical or vocational rehabilita tion as may be offered to him free of charge by the Organization. When insured person eligible for invalidity pension 17. (1) Subject to this Act, an insured person suffering from invalidity as defined in section 16 shall, unless he has attained *sixty years of age , be entitled to receive invalidity pension if he has completed a full or a reduced qualifying period.  *NOTE─see section 12 of Act A1445 which comes into operation on 1 January 2013. 

Employees’ Social Security 31 (2) A person shall be deemed to have completed full qualifying period under subsection (1) if— (i) monthly contributions have been paid in res pect of him for not less than twenty -four months during the period of forty consecutive months immediately preceding the month in which he has submitted a notice of invalidity in accordance with the regulations; or (ii) monthly contributions have been paid in respect of him for not less than two -thirds of the number of complete months comprised in the period falling between the date when contributions first become payable by him under this Act and the month immediately preceding the month in which he has submitted a notice of invalidity in accordance with the regulations, provided that the total number of monthly contributions paid during the aforesaid period shall be at least twenty-four. (3) A person shall be deemed to have completed a reduced qualifying period under subsection (1) if monthly contributions have been paid in respect of him for not less than one -third of the number of complete months comprised in the period falling between the date when contributions first become payable by him under this Act and the month immediately preceding the month in which he has submitted a notice of invalidity in accordance with the regulations, provided that the total number of monthly contributions paid during the aforesaid period shall be at least twenty-four. (3A) If the insured person fails to complete a qualifying period under subsection (2) or (3) and the Organization is satisfied that such failure is not due to any fault of the insured person or is due to the ignorance of the insured person, the Organization ma y consider the qualifying period to have been completed by an insured person if a medical board, established pursuant to section 32, to which the matter is referred by the Organization determines that the insured person’s invalidity has commenced earlier than the date the notice of invalidity is received by the Organization in accordance with the regulations. 

32 Laws of Malaysia ACT 4 (3B) Where the Organization has considered the qualifying period to have been completed by an insured person under subsection (3 A), the date on whic h the insured person submits his notice of invalidity shall be deemed to be the date of commencement of his invalidity. (3C) Notwithstanding subsections (2) and (3), the Organization has the discretion to allow periods of credit to be taken into consider ation for the purpose of determining the completion of the qualifying period of an insured person, and the months in the period of credit for which contribution is payable shall be included for the purpose of calculating the total number of months for the purpose of those subsections. (3D) The term “period of credit” in subsection (3C) means the period during which the insured person receives temporary disablement benefit and the employer does not pay any wages to the insured person. (4) If after an insured person’s notice of invalidity has been rejected on account of his failure to have completed one or other of the qualifying periods, a fresh notice of invalidity is received from him, the date of the fresh notice of invalidity shall be treated, for the purposes of subsections (2) and (3) as the date on which he has submitted a notice of invalidity. (5) (Deleted by Act A450). Qualifying conditions for survivors’ pension 17A. (1) Subject to this Act, survivors’ pension shall be payable on completion of a full or reduced qualifying period. (2) The deceased insured person shall be deemed to have completed a full qualifying period under subsection (1) if— (a) monthly contributions have been paid in respect of him for not less than twenty -four months durin g the period of forty consecutive months preceding the month of his death; or (b) monthly contributions have been paid in respect of him for not less than two -thirds of the number of complete months 

Employees’ Social Security 33 comprised in the period falling between the date when contributions first become payable by him under this Act and the date of his death, provided that the total number of monthly contributions paid during the aforesaid period shall be at least twenty-four. (3) A deceased insured person shall be deemed to have co mpleted a reduced qualifying period under subsection (1) if monthly contributions have been paid in respect of him for not less than one-third of the number of complete months comprised in the period falling between the date when contributions first becom e payable by him under this Act and the date of his death, provided that the total number of monthly contributions paid during the aforesaid period shall be at least twenty-four. 18. (Deleted by Act A814). Payment of invalidity pension 19. (1) Invalidity pension shall accrue from the day in which the insured person gives notice of invalidity in accordance with the regulations and shall cease on the day following the day in which invalidity ceases or the day the pensioner dies. (2) For the purpose of t his section, the daily rate of invalidity pension shall be the amount of the monthly rate of invalidity pension paid or payable to the insured person, divided by the number of days in the month in which the pension accrues or the invalidity ceases or the pensioner dies. Invalidity pension 20. (1) Subject to section 19, the rate of pension shall be as follows: (a) for an insured person who has completed the full qualifying period under subsection 17(2), a basic monthly pension equal to fifty per cent of his average monthly wage, increased by 1 per cent of the average monthly wage for every twelve 

34 Laws of Malaysia ACT 4 months’ contributions paid in excess of the first twenty -four months, in respect of him during the period falling between the date when contributions first become pa yable by him under this Act and the date on which he submits a notice of invalidity in accordance with the regulations: Provided that the rate of monthly pension, as so increased, shall not in any case exceed 65 per cent of the average monthly wage; (b) for an insured person who has completed the reduced qualifying period under subsection 17(3), a basic monthly pension equal to fifty per cent of his average monthly wage. (2) (a) The term “average monthly wage”, wherever it occurs in this section, refers to the average of assumed monthly wage corresponding to the last twenty-four monthly contributions in respect of the insured person which have been paid immediately before the month in which he submits a notice of invalidity in accordance with the regulations: Provided that a minimum average monthly wage shall be three hundred and forty -two ringgit and eighty -six sen subject to such amount as may be prescribed by the Minister from time to time by regulations. (b) Assumed monthly wage to which a monthly con tribution corresponds shall be deemed to be as indicated in the Fourth Schedule. (c) (Deleted by Act A450). Survivors’ pension 20A. (1) If an insured person who is in receipt of invalidity pension, or if an insured person who has not attained *sixty years of age but has completed a full or reduced qualifying period as specified under  *NOTE─see section 12 of Act A1445 which comes into operation on 1 January 2013. 

Employees’ Social Security 35 section 17A, dies, survivors’ pension at the rates specified in the Eighth Schedule shall be payable— (a) to the widow or the widower during life, and if there are two or mor e widows, the widow’s share of survivors’ pension specified in the Eighth Schedule shall be divided equally between the widows: Provided that if a widow or widower is entitled to more than one survivors’ pension, she or he shall be paid only one pension, being the pension with the higher rate. (b) to each child until marriage or until he attains the age of twenty-one years, whichever occurs earlier: Provided that in the case of a child referred to in paragraph (b) of the definition of “child” in section 2 , survivors’ pension shall continue to be paid so long as he is incapable of supporting himself: And provided further that the Organization may continue such pension to a child who is in receipt of education in any institution of higher learning but not beyond the first degree until he completes or ceases to receive such education or until he marries, whichever occurs earlier. (c) (Deleted by Act A675). (2) If an insured person who is in receipt of invalidity pension, or if an insured person who has not a ttained *sixty years of age but has completed a full or reduced qualifying period as specified under section 17A, dies and does not leave a widow, or a widower who is wholly or mainly dependent on the earnings of the insured person at the time of her death, or a child, survivors’ pension shall be payable to the widowed mother and other dependants as specified in paragraph (b) of the definition of “dependant” in section 2, at the rates and for the duration specified in the Eighth Schedule.  *NOTE─see section 12 of Act A1445 which comes into operation on 1 January 2013. 

36 Laws of Malaysia ACT 4 (3) The survivors’ pension shall accrue from the date of the death of the insured person who is in receipt of invalidity pension or the insured person who has not attained sixty years of age but has completed a full or reduced qualifying period as specified under section 17A: Provided that where disablement benefit was payable to the deceased insured person on the date of death, the accrual date of survivors’ pension shall be the date following the date of death. 20B. (Deleted by Act A1232). Invalidity grant 21. (1) A person who is certified to be invalid shall, if he fails to complete any of the qualifying conditions specified in section 17, be entitled to an invalidity grant equivalent to the contributions paid in respect of him together with interest thereon at the rate specified in the regulations. (2) The claimant shall not be entitled to an invalidity grant unless he has paid twelve monthly contributions in the aggregate since contributions first become payable by him under this Act. (3) Invalidity grant unde r this section shall ordinarily be payable only when the person has attained sixty years of age or dies before attaining that age. (4) Notwithstanding subsection (3), invalidity grant under this Act may, at the option of the person concerned, be made at the time when invalidity is verified to exist: Provided that the contributions so refunded shall be ignored in determining at any time in future his title to or right to pension. Disablement benefit 22. Subject to this Act and the regulations, if any— 

Employees’ Social Security 37 (a) a person who sustains temporary disablement shall be entitled to periodical payment for the period of such disablement in accordance with the provisions of the Fourth Schedule: Provided that no temporary disablement benefit shall be payable unless the temporary disablement lasts for a period of at least four days including the day of the accident: Provided further that for the purposes of this section and whether or not the person who sustains the employment injury is paid wages on the day of the employment injury, the commencement of the calculation of the period of four days shall begin from the day of sustaining the employment injury; (b) a person who sustains permanent disablement, whether total or partial, shall be entitled to periodical payment for such disablement in accordance with the provisions of the Fourth Schedule: Provided that where permanent disablement, whether total or partial, has been assessed provisionally for a limited period or finally, the benefit provided under this paragraph shall be payable for that limited period or, as the case may be, for life. Presumption as to accident arising in the course of employment 23. For the purposes of this Act, an accident arising in the course of an insured person’s employment shall be pres umed, in the absence of evidence to the contrary, also to have arisen out of that employment. Accidents while travelling 24. (1) An accident happening to an insured person shall be deemed to arise out of and in the course of his employment if the accide nt happens while the insured person— 

38 Laws of Malaysia ACT 4 (a) is travelling on a route between his place of residence or stay and his place of work; (b) is travelling on a journey made for any reason which is directly connected to his employment; or (c) is travelling on a journey betwe en his place of work and the place where he takes his meal during any authorized recess. (2) If the accident under subsection (1) occurs during any interruption of, or deviation from, the insured person’s journey made for any of the purposes stipulated in the same subsection, the accident shall not be deemed to arise out of and in the course of his employment. Accidents happening while meeting emergency 25. An accident happening to an insured person in or about any premises at which he is for the time being employed for the purpose of his employer’s trade or business, profession, vocation, occupation or calling, shall be deemed to arise out of and in the course of his employment, if it happens while he is taking steps, on an actual or supposed emergency at those premises, to rescue, succour or protect persons who are, or are thought to be or possibly to be, injured or imperilled, or to avert or minimize damage to property. Dependants’ benefit 26. (1) If an insured person dies as a result of an employment injury sustained as an employee under this Act (whether or not he was in receipt of any periodical payment for temporary disablement in respect of the injury) dependants’ benefit at the rates specified in the Fourth Schedule shall be payable to his dependants as follows: (a) to the widow or widower during life, and, if there are two or more widows, the widow’s share of dependants’ benefit specified in the Fourth Schedule shall be divided equally between the widows: 

Employees’ Social Security 39 Provided that if a widow or a widower is entitled to more than one dependants’ benefits, she or he shall be paid only one benefit, being the benefit with the higher rate. (b) to each child until marriage or until he attains the age of twenty-one years, whichever occurs earlier: Provided that i n the case of a child referred to in paragraph (b) of the definition of “child” in section 2, dependants’ benefit shall continue to be paid so long as he is incapable of supporting himself: And provided further that the Organization may continue such benefit to any child who is in receipt of education in any institution of higher learning but not beyond the first degree until he completes or ceases to receive such education or until he marries, whichever occurs earlier. (c) (Deleted by Act A675). (2) If an insured person who dies as a result of an employment injury does not leave a widow or child, dependants’ benefit shall be payable to the widowed mother and other dependants as specified in paragraph (b) of the definition of “dependant” in section 2 at the rates and for the duration specified in the Fourth Schedule. 27. (Deleted by Act A1232). Occupational diseases 28. (1) If an employee who is employed in any occupation described in the Fifth Schedule contracts any disease or injury shown in the said Schedule to be related to that occupation, or if an employee who has been employed in such occupation contracts such a disease or injury within sixty months after ceasing to be so employed, the contracting of the disease or injury shall, unless the contrary is proved, be deemed to be an employment injury arising out of and in the course of employment: 

40 Laws of Malaysia ACT 4 Provided that the period of sixty months may, at the discretion of the Organization, be further extended upon production of medical and other relevant evidence in support of it. (2) Where an employee enters into a contract of service or apprenticeship with any principal employer or immediate employer to work in any occupation specified in the Fifth Schedule or is, with his consent, transferred by his principal or immediate employer to such an occupation, he shall, if requested to do so by the employer or the Organization, submit himself for examination by a duly appointed medical practitioner; but such an employee shall not be required to submit himself for examination by a duly appointed medical practitioner otherwise than in accordance with regulations made under this Act nor at shorter intervals than may be prescribed in it. (3) The Minister may, by notification in the Gazette, amend, substitute, add or delete any disease specified in the Fifth Schedule and any occupation described of it. (4) Save as provided by subsections (1) and (3), no benefit shall be payable to an employee in respect of any disease unless the disease is directly attributable to a specific injury arising out of and in the course of his employment. (5) Section 23 shall not apply to the cases to which this section applies. Funeral benefit 29. (1) If an insured person dies as a result of an employment injury or while he is in receipt of disablement benefit under this Act, or if an insured person suffering from invalidity dies while in receipt of invalidity pension, or if an insured person who has not attained sixty years of age but has completed a full or reduced qualifying period as specified in subsection (3) or (4), dies, a funeral benefit of an amount as prescribed by the Minister from time to time by regulations shall be paid to one or more of the following persons: 

Employees’ Social Security 41 (a) the widow (if there are two or more widows, the widows share equally the funeral benefit); (b) the widower; (c) the eldest surviving son or adopted son; (d) the eldest surviving daughter or adopted daughter; (e) the parent (if there are both parents, the parents share equally the funeral benefit). (2) Where there are no such persons as mentioned in paragraph (1) (a), (b), (c), (d) or (e), any other person who actually incurs the expenditure of the funeral shall be paid the expenses of the funeral of the deceased insured person or the amount as prescribed by the Minister under subsection (1), whichever is the lesser: Provided that the claim for such benefit shall be made within three months of the death of the insured person or within such extended period as the Organization or any officer or authority authorized by it in this behalf may allow: Provided further that, notwithstanding the above conditions, any disagreement over the question of to whom the payment of funeral benefit should be made, the decision of the Director General or that of an officer authorized by him shall be final. (3) An insured person who has not attained sixty years of age shall be deemed to have completed the full qualifying period under subsection (1) if— (a) monthly contributions have been paid in respect of him for not less than twenty -four months during the period of forty consecutive months preceding the month in which the insured person dies; or (b) monthly contributions have been paid in respect of him for not less than two -thirds of the number of complete months comprised in the period falling bet ween the date when 

42 Laws of Malaysia ACT 4 contributions first become payable by him under this Act and the date of his death, provided that the total number of monthly contributions paid during the said period shall be at least twenty-four. (4) An insured person who has not attained sixty years of age shall be deemed to have completed a reduced qualifying period under subsection (1) if monthly contributions have been paid in respect of him for not less than one -third of the number of complete months comprised in the period fall ing between the date when contributions first become payable by him under this Act and the date of his death, provided that the total number of monthly contributions paid during the said period shall be at least twenty-four. Constant-attendance allowance 30. An insured person who is entitled to invalidity pension or permanent total disablement benefit shall also be entitled to constant-attendance allowance at a *rate as may be prescribed by the Minister from time to time by regulations, if and so long a s he is so severely incapacitated as to constantly require the personal attendance of another person: Provided that the existence of the degree of incapacity qualifying an insured person for constant-attendance allowance shall be verified by a medical bo ard or Special Medical Board or the appellate medical board or any other authority so authorized by the Minister, in such manner as is prescribed by the regulations. Liability of employer and his servant 31. An insured person or his dependants shall not be entitled to receive or recover from the employer of the insured person, or from any other person who is the servant of the employer, any compensation  *NOTE─see section 7 of Act A1445 which comes into operation on 1 January 2013. 

Employees’ Social Security 43 or damages under any other law for the time being in force in respect of an employment injury sustained as an employee under this Act: Provided that the prohibition in this section shall not apply to any claim arising from motor vehicle accidents where the employer or the servant of the employer is required to be insured against Third Party Risks under Part IV of the Road Transport Act 1987 [Act 333]. Determination of question of invalidity or disablement 32. Any question— (a) whether the relevant accident or disease has resulted in the invalidity; (b) whether the relevant employment injury has resulted in permanent disablement; (c) whether the extent of loss of earning capacity can be assessed provisionally or finally for the purpose of disablement benefit; (d) whether the assessment of the proportion of the loss of earning capacity is provisional or final for the purpose of disablement benefit; or (e) in the case of provisional assessment for the purpose of disablement benefit as to the period for which such an assessment shall hold good, shall be determined by a medical board constituted in accordance with the regulations, if any, and such question shall hereinafter be referred to as the “invalidity question” or “disablement question”, as the case may be. 

44 Laws of Malaysia ACT 4 Determination of occupational diseases 32A. (1) Any question whether an employment injury is caused by an occupational disease as specified in the Fifth Schedule may be determined by a medical board to be known as the Special Medical Board to be constituted in accordance with the regulations. (2) The Special Medical Board shall examine the disable person and send a report in such form as may be specified by the Organization stating— (a) whether the disabled person is suffering from one or more of the diseases specified in that Schedule; (b) whether the relevant disease has resulted in permanent disablement; (c) whether the extent of loss of earning capacity can be assessed provisionally or finally; (d) the assessment of the proportion of loss of earning capacity, and in the case of provisional assessment, the period for which such assessment shall hold good. (3) The Org anization may refer any assessment which is provisional to the Special Medical Board for review not later than the end of the period taken into account by the provisional assessment. (4) Any decision of the Special Medical Board may be reviewed by it at any time. (5) The disable person shall be informed in writing by the Organization of the decision of the Special Medical Board and the benefit, if any, to which the insured person shall be entitled. 

Employees’ Social Security 45 References to medical boards and appeals to appell ate medical board 33. (1) The case of any insured person for invalidity pension or for permanent disablement benefit shall be referred by the Organization to a medical board for determination of the invalidity question or the disablement question, and if, on that or any subsequent reference, the extent of loss of earning capacity of the insured person is provisionally assessed, it shall again be so referred to the medical board not later than the end of the period taken into account by the provisional assessment. (2) If the insured person or the Organization is not satisfied with the decision of the medical board, the insured person or the Organization may appeal, in the prescribed manner and within the prescribed time, to the appellate medical board cons tituted in accordance with the regulations. (3) Regulations may prescribe that the claimant for invalidity pension or permanent disablement benefit called to appear before a medical board or, in the event of an appeal by the Organization, before the appellate medical board, in connection with the determination of the question of invalidity or the question of disablement, may be paid travelling and other expenses incurred by him in connection with such appearance in such cases and on such scale and subject to such conditions as may be prescribed by the regulations. Insured person dies before medical board examination 33A. Where an insured person, having submitted his notice of invalidity or application for reference to the medical board for determination of the disablement question in accordance with the regulations, dies before being examined by a medical board, the Organization may in its discretion, subject to any available medical evidence to its satisfaction, refer such a case to the medical board fo r determination of the invalidity question or disablement question. 

46 Laws of Malaysia ACT 4 Review of decisions by medical board or appellate medical board 34. (1) Any decision under this Act of a medical board (including the Special Medical Board) or the appellate medical bo ard may be reviewed at any time by the medical board or the appellate medical board, if it is satisfied by fresh evidence that the decision was given in consequence of the non -disclosure or misrepresentation by the employee or any other person of a materia l fact (whether the non-disclosure or misrepresentation was or was not fraudulent). (2) Any assessment of the extent of the disablement resulting from the relevant employment injury may also be reviewed by a medical board, if it is satisfied that since the making of the assessment there has been a substantial and unforeseen aggravation of the results of the relevant injury: Provided that an assessment shall not be reviewed under this subsection unless the medical board is of the opinion that, having regard to the period taken into account by the assessment, substantial injustice will be done by not reviewing it. (3) Except with the leave of an appellate medical board, the assessment shall not be reviewed under subsection (2) on any application made less than three years, or in the case of a provisional assessment, six months, from the date thereof and on such a review the period to be taken into account by any revised assessment shall not include any period before the date of the application. (4) Subject to subsection (3), a medical board may deal with a case of review in any manner in which it could deal with it on an original reference to it, and in particular may make a provisional assessment notwithstanding that the assessment under review was fin al; and section 33 shall apply to an application for review under this section and to a decision of a medical board in connection with such application as they apply to a case for disablement benefit under that section and to a decision of a medical board in connection with such case. 

Employees’ Social Security 47 Review of invalidity pension 35. (1) Subject to this Act and the regulations made in this behalf, the Organization may review the payment of any invalidity pension and as a result of such review may increase, continue, red uce or discontinue such pension. (2) Where a review is necessary consequent upon improvement in the state of invalidity, invalidity pension shall not be withdrawn unless, from any such suitable occupation as he is still capable of undertaking, the pensioner is able to earn more than half of what can be earned by a physically and mentally sound person of his experience and training: Provided that the invalidity pension shall be decreased by an amount equal to the amount earned in excess of one-third of his average wage before invalidity. Review of dependants’ benefit 36. (1) Any decision awarding dependants’ benefit or survivors’ pension under this Act may be reviewed at any time by the Organization if it is satisfied by fresh evidence that the decisio n was given in consequence of non -disclosure or misrepresentation by the claimant or any other person of a material fact (whether the non - disclosure or misrepresentation was or was not fraudulent) or that the decision is no longer in accordance with this A ct due to any birth or death or due to the marriage, remarriage, cessation of infirmity or the attainment of twenty-one years of age, by a claimant. (2) Subject to this Act, the Organization may, on such review as mentioned above, direct that the dependa nts’ benefit or survivors’ pension be continued, increased, reduced or discontinued. Medical benefit 37. (1) An insured person whose condition requires, as a result of employment injury, medical treatment and attendance shall be entitled to receive medical benefit. 

48 Laws of Malaysia ACT 4 (2) Such medical benefit may be given either in the form of outpatient treatment and attendance in a hospital or dispensary, clinic or other institution or by visits to the home of the insured person or treatment as inpatient in hospital or other institution. (3) (Deleted by Act A450). Scale of medical benefit 38. (1) An insured person shall be entitled to receive medical benefit only of such kind and on such scale as may be provided by the Organization, and the insured person shall not have a right to claim any medical treatment except such as is provided by the dispensary, clinic, hospital or other institution to which he is allotted, or as may be provided by the regulations. (2) Nothing in this Act shall entitle an insured person to claim reimbursement from the Organization of any expenses incurred in respect of any medical treatment, except as may be provided by the regulations. Establishment and maintenance of hospitals, etc. 39. (1) The Organization may establish and maintain such hospitals, dispensaries and other medical and surgical services as it may think fit for the benefit of insured persons. (2) The Organization may enter into agreement with any Government, local authority, person, private or individual in regard to the provisions of medical treatment and attendance for insured persons, in any area and payment of the cost of it. 

Employees’ Social Security 49 Organization’s power to co -operate with existing institutions or promote measures for health, welfare, etc., of insured persons 40. (1) The Organization may, in addition to the scheme of benefits specified in this Act, promote measures or co -operate with existing institutions for the improvement of the health, occupational safety and welfare of insured persons and for the rehabilitation and r e- employment of insured persons who have been disabled or injured and may incur in respect of such measures expenditure from the funds of the Organization within such limits as may be prescribed by the Minister. (2) Measures under subsection (1) may incl ude provision of artificial limbs and appliances, opportunities for gainful employment under suitable conditions and convalescent homes. Benefit not assignable or attachable 41. (1) The right to receive any payment of any benefit or invalidity grant under this Act, and the amount of contributions payable under this Act, shall not be transferable or assignable. (2) No cash benefit including invalidity grant or contributions payable under this Act shall be liable to attachment or sale in execution of any decree or order of any court. 42. (Deleted by Act A981). Persons not to commute cash benefits 43. Save as may be provided in the regulations no person shall be entitled to commute for a lump sum any periodical payment admissible under this Act: Provided that where the loss of earning capacity has been assessed at more than twenty per cent, an insured person may opt for the commutation of one-fifth of the daily benefit payable for a lump sum and to receive the balance as periodical payments. 

50 Laws of Malaysia ACT 4 Persons not entitled to receive benefits in certain cases 44. No person shall be entitled to disablement benefit for temporary disablement in respect of any day on which he works and receives wages. Claimant of disablement benefit or invalidity pension to observ e conditions 45. The claimant of disablement benefit or invalidity pension shall attend and submit himself for such medical or other examination as the Organization or a medical board or the appellate medical board may consider necessary for ratification and certification of his disability or invalidity. Recipients of disablement benefit to observe conditions 46. (1) A person who is in receipt of disablement benefit (other than benefit granted on permanent disablement)— (a) shall remain under medical trea tment at a dispensary, hospital, clinic or other institution provided under this Act and shall carry out the instructions g iven by the medical officer or medical attendant in charge of it; (b) shall not while under treatment do anything which might prejudice his chances of recovery; (c) shall not leave the area in which medical treatment provided by this Act is being given, without the permission of the medical officer, medical attendant or such other authority as may be specified in this behalf by the regulations; and (d) shall allow himself to be examined by any duly appointed medical officer or other person authorized by the Organization in this behalf. 

Employees’ Social Security 51 (2) Disablement benefit for temporary disablement may be suspended, if a person who is in receipt of such benefit fails to comply with any of the requirements of subsection (1), and such suspension shall be for such number of days as may be decided by the Organization or any other person authorized in this behalf by the Organization. 47. (Deleted by Act A450). Organization’s right where a principal employer fails or neglects to pay any contribution 48. (1) If any principal employer fails or neglects to pay any contribution which under this Act he is liable to pay in respect of any employee and by reason of it s uch person or his dependants become entitled to benefit on a lower scale, the Organization may, on being satisfied that the contribution should have been paid by the principal employer, pay to the person or their dependants the benefit at the rate to which he or they would have been entitled if the failure or neglect had not occurred and the Organization shall be entitled to recover from the principal employer either— (i) the difference between the amount of benefit which has been paid by the Organization to the said person or his dependants and the amount of the benefit which would have been payable on the basis of the contributions which were in fact paid by the employer; or (ii) twice the amount of the contribution which the employer failed or neglected to pay, whichever is greater. (2) The amount recoverable under this section may be recovered as a debt due to the Organization. (3) This section shall not apply to invalidity pension. 

52 Laws of Malaysia ACT 4 Suspension of invalidity pension 49. (1) The Organization may suspend i nvalidity pension for a period not exceeding twelve months if the pensioner has fraudulently acted towards the Organization in connection with any claim which he has made or any payment which he has received. (2) The Organization may suspend the pension if and so long as the invalid pensioner— (a) engages in any employment by virtue of which he is liable to be insured under this Act, if the amount earned from such employment is more than one third of his average wage before invalidity; (b) fails without good cause to appear, when directed, before the medical board or any other authority for verification of the existence or the continued existence of his invalidity; (c) refuses or neglects without good cause to comply with any directive issued to him by or on behalf of the Organization in regard to any process of physical or vocational rehabilitation or vocational training which he is required to undergo free of charge; or (d) fails without good cause to submit himself to any free medical treatment including fitting of prosthetic appliances offered by the Organization for his invalidity or fails to carry out any instructions of the medical officer in whose care he is placed: Provided that he shall not be required to undergo any operation that is capable of endangering his life or health. Repayment of benefit improperly received 50. (1) Where any person has received any benefit or payment under this Act when he is not lawfully entitled to it, he shall be liable to repay to the Organization the value of the benefit or t he amount of such 

Employees’ Social Security 53 payment, or in the case of his death, his representative shall be liable to repay the same from the assets of the deceased, if any, in his hands. (1A) Where any person has received any benefit or payment under this Act when he is not la wfully entitled to it, and subsequently becomes entitled to other benefits under this Act, the Organization shall recover the value of the benefit or the amount of such payment from that other benefit that he is entitled to. (2) The value of any benefits received other than cash payments shall be determined by such authority as may be specified in the regulations made in this behalf and the decision of such authority shall be final. (3) The amount recoverable under this section may be recovered as a debt due to the Organization. Payment of amount of benefit outstanding at the time of the death of the insured person 51. If a person dies during any period for which he is entitled to any of the cash benefits (or when he is entitled to invalidity grant) provided under this Act, the amount of such benefit (or grant) shall be paid to any person nominated by the deceased person in writing in such form as may be specified in the regulations or, if there is no such nomination, to the heir or legal representative of the deceased person: Provided that the amount of cash benefit shall be payable up to and including the day of his death in case of disablement benefit (and constant-attendance allowance, if any) and dependants’ benefit and survivors’ pension and up to the last day of the month preceding the month in which the pensioner dies, in case of invalidity pension (and constant-attendance allowance, if any). Employer not to reduce wages, etc. 52. No employer by reason only of his liability for any contribut ions payable under this Act shall, directly or indirectly reduce the wages of 

54 Laws of Malaysia ACT 4 any employee, or except as provided by the regulations, discontinue or reduce benefits payable to him under the conditions of his service which are similar to the benefits conferred by this Act. Employer not to dismiss or punish employee during period of temporary disablement 53. (1) No employer shall, except as provided under the regulations, dismiss, discharge, or reduce or otherwise punish an employee during the period he is in receipt of disablement benefit for temporary disablement. (2) No notice of dismissal or discharge or reduction given to an employee during the period specified in subsection (1) shall be valid or operative. Claim for benefits 54. Every claim for a benefit or pension or invalidity grant shall be submitted in such form to such authority with such evidence in support of the claim, as may be prescribed by the regulations. Reporting of change in condition, etc. 55. A person in receipt of any benefit under this Act, shall report to the Organization as soon as possible every event or fact which affects or is likely to affect his continued right to the benefit or the rate of it. Discretion to compute the qualifying period and the rate of monthly invalidity pension 56. (1) Notwithstanding the provisions of sections 17, 17A, 20 and 29 and the Eighth Schedule, the Organization may take into account, for the purposes of computing the qualifying period for invalidity pension, survivors’ pension, funeral ben efit and the rates of monthly invalidity pension and survivors’ pension, any contribution in respect 

Employees’ Social Security 55 of an insured person which, though due under this Act, have not actually been paid. (2) If, but for taking into account contributions referred to in subsection (1), a person would not complete the qualifying period or would be entitled to the invalidity pension or survivors’ pension at a lower rate, the actuarial present value of the pension or such part of the pension as is attributable to the contributio ns taken into account in subsection (1), may be recovered by the Organization from the employer who has failed to pay the aforesaid contributions, or if there is more than one such employer, from all of them, in proportion to the amount of contributions they failed to pay. Facilities for physical or vocational rehabilitation 57. (1) An insured person suffering from or claiming to suffer from invalidity or permanent disablement may be provided by the Organization, free of charge facilities for physical or vocational rehabilitation. (2) Facilities under subsection (1) shall be of such nature and scale and shall be provided to such insured persons and on such conditions as may be specified by the regulations. (3) An insured person suffering from or claim ing to suffer from invalidity or permanent disablement may, if his condition so requires, be provided free of charge with prosthetic, orthotic or other appropriate appliances as may be determined by the Organization and such appliances may be renewed, when necessary, free of charge. (4) An insured person who has to undergo physical or vocational rehabilitation or who is or is to be fitted with prosthetic, orthotic or other appliances may be paid or reimbursed, as determined by the Organization, expenses r easonably incurred or to be incurred by him on travelling or maintenance in connection with such measures, or the fitting of prosthetic, orthotic or other appliances. 

56 Laws of Malaysia ACT 4 Education benefit 57A. Education benefit in the form of loans or scholarships may be provided to a dependant child of an insured person who— (a) dies as a result of an employment injury; (b) dies whilst in receipt of invalidity pension; (c) dies before attaining the age of sixty years but has completed a full or a reduced qualifying period as speci fied under section 17A; (d) is in receipt of invalidity pension; or (e) is in receipt of periodical payments of permanent disablement benefit, on such terms and conditions as the Organization may deem fit to impose. Organization to be responsible for the reco very and collection of repayments of educational loans 57B. (1) The Organization shall be responsible for the recovery and collection of repayments of educational loans paid out to a dependant child under section 57A. (2) An educational loan which is no t repaid or which is in arrears shall be treated as a civil debt owned by a dependant child to the Organization and the Organization may avail itself of such means as are permitted under the law for the recovery of such debt. Appointment of collection agents 57C. The Organization, with the approval of the Minister, may appoint such number of agents for the purpose of recovery of educational loans paid out to a dependant child under section 57A. 

Employees’ Social Security 57 PART IV ADMINISTRATION, FINANCE AND AUDIT Administration of the Social Security Scheme 58. (1) The Scheme of Social Security embodied under the Act shall be administered by the Social Security Organization in accordance with this Act. (1A) The Organization may administer any other social security scheme if the administration of such scheme is conferred upon the Organization by any written law. (2) The general direction and superintendence of the Organization shall vest in the Board which shall be established in accordance with this Act. Chief Executive Officer 59. (1) The Minister shall appoint a Director General who shall be the Chief Executive Officer of the Organization. (2) The Minister may also appoint one or more Deputy Directors General. (2A) If for any period the Director General is temporarily ab sent from Malaysia or temporarily incapacitated through illness, or for any other reason is unable to perform his duties, or where the office of the Director General becomes vacant, the Minister shall appoint one of the Deputy Directors General to perform the duties of the Director General during such period. (3) The terms and conditions of service of the Director General and of Deputy Directors General shall be determined by the Minister in consultation with the Minister of Finance. 

58 Laws of Malaysia ACT 4 The Social Security Organization 59A. The Organization shall be a body corporate with perpetual succession and a common seal and may sue and be sued in its name and, subject to and for the purposes of this Act, may enter into contracts and may acquire, purchase, take, hold and enjoy movable and immovable property of every description, and may convey, assign, surrender, yield up, charge, mortgage, demise, reassign, transfer or otherwise dispose of, or deal with, any movable or immovable property or any interest in it vested in the Organization upon such terms as it thinks fit. Establishment of the Board 59B. (1) There shall be established a board to be known as the Social Security Organization Board. (2) The Board shall be composed as follows: (a) a Chairman to be appointed by the Minister; (b) the Director General of the Organization; (c) an officer representing the Ministry of Finance; (ca) an officer representing the Ministry responsible for human resources; (cb) an officer representing the Ministry responsible for health; (d) not more than four persons representing employers to be appointed by the Minister in consultation with such Organizations representing employers as the Minister may think fit for that purpose; (e) not more than four persons representing insured persons to be a ppointed by the Minister in consultation with such Organizations representing insured persons as the Minister may think fit for that purpose; 

Employees’ Social Security 59 (f) three persons with experience in social security matters to be appointed by the Minister. (3) The appointment of members of the Board shall be notified in the Gazette. (4) Members of the Board appointed under paragraphs (2)(a), (d), (e) and (f) shall hold office for such term and be subject to such conditions as the Minister may specify in the instrument appointing them. (5) The Board shall not be prevented from performing any of its functions, duties and obligations under this Act by any vacancy in its membership: Provided that the Minister shall take all possible steps to ensure that any vacancy among perso ns appointed in accordance with paragraphs (2)(a), (d), (e) and (f) shall be filled as soon as is reasonably practicable. (6) (Deleted by Act A981). (7) The Minister may appoint an officer of the Organization to perform the duties of Secretary of the Board and another officer to be his Assistant. (8) The Minister may for each of the members appointed under paragraphs (2)(d) and (e) appoint a person to be an alternate member to attend meetings of the Board in place of the member when the member is una ble to attend due to illness, incapacity or any other reason: Provided that the appointment of the alternate member shall be in consultation with such Organizations representing employers or insured persons, as the Minister may think fit. (9) When atte nding meetings of the Board, an alternate member shall for all purposes be deemed to be a member of the Board. 

60 Laws of Malaysia ACT 4 (10) An alternate member shall, unless he sooner resigns his membership or his appointment is sooner revoked, cease to be an alternate member w hen the member for whom he is an alternate member ceases to be a member of the Board. Minister shall appoint any person to act as Chairman 59C. (1) If for any period the Chairman of the Board is temporarily absent from Malaysia or temporarily incapacita ted through illness, or for any other reason is unable to perform his duties, the Minister shall appoint any person to perform the duties of Chairman during such period. (2) Where the office of Chairman becomes vacant the Minister shall appoint any perso n to perform the duties of the Chairman until such time as the vacancy is filled. Sixth Schedule to apply to Board 59D. The Sixth Schedule to this Act shall apply to the Board. Cessation of membership of Board 59E. (1) A member of the Board shall cease to be a member— (a) if he fails to attend three consecutive meetings without leave of the Board; or (b) if his appointment is revoked by the Minister. (2) A member of the Board appointed by the Minister under paragraphs 59B (2)(a), (2)(d), (2)(e) and (2)(f) may resign his office by notice in writing to the Minister. 

Employees’ Social Security 61 Disqualification 59F. (1) A person shall be disqualified from being a member of the Board— (a) if he is declared to be of unsound mind by a competent court; or (b) if he is an undischarged bankrupt; or (c) if he has directly or indirectly any interest in a subsisting contract with or any work being done for the Organization except as a medical practitioner or as a shareholder (not being a director) of a company; or (d) if before or after the commencement of this Act, he has been found guilty by any competent court of an offence involving fraud, dishonesty or moral turpitude; or (e) if after demand, a member fails to remit to the Organization previous contributions which have become due; or (f) if he subsequentl y becomes an officer or servant of the Organization other than the Director General and the Deputy Director General; or (g) if he has become a member of any legislature. (2) Any cessation of membership of the Board in accordance with the provisions of this section or of section 59C shall be notified in the Gazette. Application of the Public Authorities Protection Act 1948 59G. The Public Authorities Protection Act 1948 [Act 198] shall apply to any action, suit, prosecution or proceeding against the Board, or against any of its members, any officer, servant or agent of the Organization in respect of any act, neglect or default done or committed by him in such capacity. 

62 Laws of Malaysia ACT 4 Public servants and public officers 59H. All members of the Board and officers and serva nts of the Organization while discharging their duties as such members, officers or servants shall be deemed to be public servants within the meaning of the Penal Code [ Act 574], and public officers for the purposes of any written law for the time being in force. Board to give effect to Minister’s directions 59I. (1) In the exercise of its powers and the performance of its duties and functions under this Act, the Board shall be responsible to the Minister who may, from time to time, give directions not inconsistent with this Act, and the Board shall as soon as possible, give effect to all such directions. (2) The Minister may at any time require the Board to submit to him proposals for the introduction of new Social Security Schemes or the modification or extension of the existing schemes as may be necessary for the fulfillment of the Government’s social policy programmes. Delegation of power 59J. The Board may, subject to such conditions, limitations or restrictions as it thinks fit, delegate to the Chairman, Director General, any of its members or any person, authority to sanction expenditure from the Social Security Fund or any other monies under the control of the Board, up to such limit as it shall in such case specify. Administrative control of officers and servants by Director General 59K. (1) Subject to the directions of the Chairman of the Board, the Director General shall have administrative control of the officers and servants of the Organization. 

Employees’ Social Security 63 (2) The Director General shall perform such other or further duties as the Minister or the Board may from time to time determine. Appointment of officers and servants 59L. (1) Subject to section 59, the Board may appoint such other officers and servants of the Organization as may be necessary for the purpose of carrying out this Act. (2) No person shall be eligible for employment as officer or servant of the Organization if he has, directly or indirectly any share or interest in any contract or proposed contract with, for or on behalf of the Organization. (3) Any officer or servant of the Organization who has or acquires directly or indirectly any such share or interest shall be liable to dismissal by the Board: Provided that no such officer or servant shall be dismissed without being given a reasonable opportunity of being heard. Setting up divisions, regional offices, etc. 59M. The Board may set up within the Organization such divisions and regional and local offices as it may consider necessary for the efficient functioning of the Organization. Power to dispose of staff questions 59N. (1) Subject to this Act and in the staff rules, the Director General shall dispose of all questions relating to the service (other than questions on appointment, suspension, promotion and dismissal), pay, privileges and allowances of officers and servants of the Organization: Provided that in the case of officers and servants who are not in the Group 11 category, such powers, with the exception of granting or 

64 Laws of Malaysia ACT 4 suspending leave, shall not be exercised without the previous approval of the Board. (2) Any officer or servant aggrieved by a decision of the Director General in the exercise of his powers under this section may appeal to the Board within such period as may be determined in staff rules. Power to make staff rules 59O. (1) With the approval of the Minister, the Board may, from time to time, make staff rules relating to the conditions of service of officers and servants (other than the Director General and Deputy Director General) of the Organization: Provided that in making such rules, the Board shall have regard to the rates of pay and other conditions of service applicable to officers and servants of statutory bodies. (2) Without prejudice to the generality of subsection (1) such rules may provide for matters specified in the Seventh Schedule. Committees 59P. Notwithstanding any other provisions in this Act, the Board may set up committees consisting of members of the Board or persons who are not members of the Board or a combination of both to advise or assist the Board on such matters concerning its functions as it considers fit, and the Board may delegate, subject to such conditions or restrictions as it may impose, such of its functions as it considers fit to any such committees. Disciplinary Committee 59Q. There shall be a Disciplinary Committee which shall consist of the following three members: 

Employees’ Social Security 65 (a) two members to be elected by and from among the members of the Board (other than the Chairman of the Board), one of whom shall be elected as chairman; and (b) the Director General: Provided that the Director General or the Deputy Director General, shall not be a member of the Disciplinary Committee in any proceedings before it in which he is the complainant, in which case his place shall b e taken by a member to be appointed by and from the members of the Board. Discipline of officers 59R. (1) The disciplinary authority in respect of every officer and servant of the Organization, other than the Director General and the Deputy Director Gen eral, shall be the Disciplinary Committee established under section 59Q. (2) In the exercise of its functions, powers or duties the Disciplinary Committee shall have the power to take such disciplinary action and impose such disciplinary punishment as may be provided by any rules that may be made under section 59T. (3) The Disciplinary Committee may, subject to subsection (4), delegate any of its disciplinary functions, powers or duties to any officer or servant of the Organization, or to any committee of officers or servants of the Organization, in respect of any particular officer or servant of the Organization or in respect of any class or category of officers or servants of the Organization, and the officer or servant or the committee delegated with such functions, powers or duties shall carry out, exercise or discharge them under the direction and control of the Disciplinary Committee which shall have the power to review, rescind or vary any decision or finding of such officer or servant, or committee. (4) No delegation shall be made under subsection (3) so as to enable an officer or servant of the Organization to exercise any disciplinary 

66 Laws of Malaysia ACT 4 authority or to be a member of a committee which may exercise any disciplinary authority over an officer or servant who is superior to him in rank. (5) Any officer or servant of the Organization who is dissatisfied with the decision of the Disciplinary Committee or of any person or committee delegated with disciplinary functions, powers or duties under subsection (3) may, within fourteen days, appeal in writing against such decision to the Disciplinary Appeal Board which may give such decision thereon as it deems fit. Establishment of Disciplinary Appeal Board 59S. (1) There shall be established a Disciplinary Appeal Board composed as follows: (a) the Chairman of the Board, as Chairman; and (b) members of the Board, excluding the members who sit in the Disciplinary Committee. (2) The decision of the Disciplinary Appeal Board shall be final. Power to make disciplinary rules 59T. (1) The Board may, with the approval of the Minister, make such disciplinary rules as it deems necessary or expedient to provide for the discipline of the officers and servants of the Organization. (2) The disciplinary rules made by the Board under this section may include— (a) provisions for the interdiction with reduction in salary or in other remuneration, or provisions for the suspension without salary or other remuneration, of an officer or servant of the Organization during the pendency of disciplinary proceedings; 

Employees’ Social Security 67 (b) provisions for disciplinary offences and punishment as the Board may deem appropriate, and the punishments so provided may extend to dismissal or reduction in rank; and (c) the procedure for disciplinary proceedings and provisions for an opportunity for representations to be made by the person against whom disciplinary proceedings are taken. Imposition of surcharge 59U. (1) If the Board is satisfied that any person who is or was in the employment of the Organization— (a) is or wa s responsible for any improper payment of moneys from the Fund or for any payment of such moneys which is not duly vouched; (b) is or was responsible for any deficiency in, or for the destruction of, any moneys, stamps, securities, stores or other property of the Organization; (c) being or having been an accounting officer, fails or has failed to keep proper accounts or records; or (d) has failed to make any payment, or is or was responsible for any delay in the payment, of moneys from the Fund to any person to whom such payment is due under any contract, agreement or arrangement entered into between that person and the Organization, and if a satisfactory explanation is not furnished to the Board within a period specified by the Board, with regard to the failure to collect, improper payment, payment not duly vouched, deficiency or destruction, or failure to keep proper accounts or records, or failure to make payment, or delay in making payment, the Board may surcharge against the said person a sum not exceeding the a mount of any such amount not collected, such payment, deficiency, or loss or the value of the property destroyed, as the case may be; and with regard to the failure to keep proper accounts or records, or the failure to make 

68 Laws of Malaysia ACT 4 payment, or the delay in making payment, the Board may surcharge against the said person such sum as the Board may think fit. (2) The Board shall cause the Director General to be notified of any surcharge made under subsection (1) and the Director General shall thereupon notify the person surcharged. (3) The Board may at any time withdraw any surcharge in respect of which a satisfactory explanation has been received or if it otherwise appears that no surcharge should have been made, and the Board shall at once cause the Director General to be notified of such withdrawal. (4) The amount of any surcharge imposed under subsection (1) and not withdrawn under subsection (3) shall be a debt due to the Organization from the person against whom the surcharge is imposed and may be sued for an d recovered in any court at the suit of the Organization and may also be recovered by deduction— (a) from the salary of the person surcharged if the Board so directs; or (b) from the pension of the person surcharged if the Board so directs, by equal monthly ins talments not exceeding one -fourth of the total monthly salary or pension, of the person. Establishment of Promotion Board 59V. (1) There shall be established a Promotion Board in respect of each of the categories of officers and servants as set out in t he first column of the Tenth Schedule, constituting the members specified in the second column of the same Schedule. (2) The relevant Promotion Board shall have jurisdiction and shall exercise its functions in all matters relating to promotion in respect of all officers and servants of the Organization in the category specified in the first column of the Tenth Schedule. 

Employees’ Social Security 69 Establishment of Promotion Appeal Board 59W. (1) There shall be established a Promotion Appeal Board in respect of each of the categori es of officers and servants as set out in the first column of the Tenth Schedule constituting the members specified in the third column of the same Schedule. (2) The Promotion Appeal Board shall have jurisdiction and shall exercise its functions in respe ct of any appeal against any decision of a Promotion Board relating to an officer or servant over whom that Promotion Board has jurisdiction. (3) Any officer or servant, who is eligible for promotion, or for acting in a capacity with a view to promotion, who is aggrieved by the decision of the Promotion Board concerned, may appeal to the relevant Promotion Appeal Board. (4) A Promotion Appeal Board, after considering the appeal, may confirm or vary the decision of the Promotion Board concerned, the result of which shall be duly conveyed to the Promotion Board to enable it to come to a decision. (5) The Promotion Appeal Board may alter the effective date of promotion and the order of seniority of the officers or servants concerned but without prejudice to the promotion per se of the successful officers or servants. (6) The decision of the Promotion Appeal Board shall be final. 60–63. (Deleted by Act A675). Fees and allowances 64. Members of the Board and the Investment Panel shall receive such fees, allowances and any other benefits as may from time to time be determined by the Minister. 65–67. (Deleted by Act A675). 

70 Laws of Malaysia ACT 4 Social Security Fund 68. There shall be established under this Act the Social Security Fund into which shall be paid— (a) contributions payable by or in respect of insured persons; (b) rent, interest, dividend or any other income derived from the assets of the Organization; (c) sums properly accruing to the Fund under this Act, including the repayment of benefits; (d) sums recovered under this Act as fees, costs, charges and any interest on arrears of contributions; (e) sums by way of grants, donations and gifts from the Federal Government, State Government, local authority, or any individual or body, whether incorporated or not, for all or any of the purposes of this Act; (f) sums transferred from funds that were previously established under this Act; and (g) any other moneys payable to the Organization. Administration of the Fund 69. (1) The Social Security Fund shall be held and administered by the Organization for the purposes of this Act. (2) All moneys accruing or payable to the said Fund shall be paid into such banks as may be authorized by the Board: Provided that the Board may authorize post offices also to accept, on behalf of the Organization, all moneys accruing or payable to the Fund referred to in section 68 subject to such terms and conditions as may be prescribed in the regulations. 

Employees’ Social Security 71 Acceptance of grants, donations, etc. 70. The Organization may accept grants, donations and gifts from the Federal or any State Government, local authority, or any individual or body whether incorporated or not, for all or any of the purposes of this Act. Purposes for which the Fund may be expended 71. Subject to this Act and of any regulations made ther eunder, the Social Security Fund shall be expended only for the following purposes, namely: (i) payment of benefits and invalidity grant and provision of medical treatment and attendance to insured persons or to their dependants; (ii) establishment and maintenance of hospitals, dispensaries and other institutions and the provision of medical and other ancillary services for the benefit of insured persons; (iia) establishment or taking over of a company under section 74A and its maintenance; (iii) payment of contributions to the Government, local authority or any private body or individual, towards the cost of medical treatment and attendance provided to insured persons including the cost of any building and equipment, in accordance with any agreement entered into by the Organization; (iv) defraying the cost of the appellate boards and medical boards set up under this Act; (v) payment of sums under any decree, order or award of any court or tribunal against the Organization or any of its officers or servants for any act done in the execution of his duty or under a compromise or settlement of any suit or other 

72 Laws of Malaysia ACT 4 legal proceeding or claim instituted or made against the Organization; (vi) defraying the cost and other charges of instituting or defending any civil or criminal proceedings arising out of any action taken under this Act; (vii) defraying expenditure, within the limits prescribed, on measures for the improvement of the health, occupational safety and welfare of insured persons or dependants and for the rehabilitation and re-employment of insured persons who have been disabled or injured; (viii) payment of fees, allowances and other remuneration to members of the Board and Investment Panel; (viiia) granting of loans or scholarships to a dependant child of an insured person as specified under section 57A; and (ix) such other purposes as may be authorized by the Minister in consultation with the Minister of Finance. Expenditure on administration 72. Notwithstanding section 71, expenditure may be incurred by the Organization out of the Social Security Fund up to such amount as the Minister may authorize by regulation, for any one year, for carrying on the administration of the Scheme of Social Security provided under the Act including— (a) the payment of salaries, leave and transfer expenses, travelling and compensatory allowances, gratuities and compassionate allowances, contribution to benefit fund, welfare and recreation of officers and servants of the Organization and meeting expenditure in respect of offices and other services set up for the p urpose of giving effect to this Act; 

Employees’ Social Security 73 (b) the payment of fees and other remuneration to auditors, actuaries, agents, technical advisers, bankers, stockbrokers, surveyors or other persons employed on a temporary or part- time basis to carry into effect the objectives of this Act; and (c) the purchase or hire of equipment. Withdrawal from Fund for loans or other financing facilities 72A. Notwithstanding section 71, the Organization may authorize the withdrawal of such amount from the Social Security Fund as may be required for granting loans or other financing facilities to officers and servants of the Organization as provided in the staff rules or for purposes similar to those approved by the Government for members of the public services. Administrative expenditure Government’s responsibility 73. Notwithstanding the provisions of the foregoing section, the Government may incur all expenditure for and in connection with the establishment of the Organization up to the date of its establishment and thereafter may bear all or to such extent and for such period as may be prescribed by the Minister of Finance the administrative expenditure in connection with the purposes mentioned in the foregoing section. Holding of property, etc. 74. The Organization may, subject to such conditions as may be prescribed by the Minister in consultation with the Minister of Finance acquire and hold property both movable and immovable, sell or otherwise transfer any movable or immovable property which may have become vested in or have been acquired by it and do all things necessary for the purposes for which the Organization is established. 

74 Laws of Malaysia ACT 4 Power of the Organization to establish or take over companies 74A. (1) The Organization may, with the approval of the Minister and the Minister of Finance, establish or take over any company under the *Companies Act 1965 [Act 125] to carry out, administer, conduct and manage any project, joint venture, privatization programme, scheme, enterprise or any other matter which has been planned or undert aken by the Organization for the purposes of the Scheme of Social Security under this Act. (2) The Organization may give instructions to the company referred to in subsection (1) on matters relating to the administration, finance and operation of the company which are consistent with the provisions of this Act, and such company shall give effect to the instructions. Investment of funds 75. (1) Subject to such conditions as may be prescribed by the Minister in consultation with the Minister of Finance, the funds of the Organization which are not immediately required for meeting expenses under the Act shall be invested— (a) in investments or securities authorized for the investment of trust funds by any written law for the time being in force; (b) in investment in shares and debentures in any public company the prices of which are quoted or sought to be quoted on the stock exchange established in Malaysia; and (c) in such other investments or securities as the Board may decide: Provided that any investment made u nder this Act may be varied, transposed or realized from time to time.  *NOTE—The Companies Act 1965 [ Act 125] has since been repealed by the Companies Act 2016 [ Act 777] which comes into operation on 31 January 2017–see subsection 620(1) of Act 777. 

Employees’ Social Security 75 (2) The Minister in consultation with the Minister of Finance may, at any time, direct the vacation in part or in whole, or prohibit investment, in any security or class of securities. (3) For the purposes of this section— “debentures” includes debenture stock, bond, note or other securities or obligations of a company, whether constituting a charge on the assets of the company or not and also includes the right to subscribe for any debenture; “shares” means the paid-up shares (whether fully paid or not) in the share capital of a company and includes stocks and rights to subscribe for any stock or shares. Investment Panel 75A. (1) There shall be established an Investment Panel which shall, subject to such directions as may be issued by the Board, be responsible for matters pertaining to the investments of the Organization. (2) The Investment Panel shall consist of the following persons: (a) the Chairman of the Board as Chairman; (b) two members appointed by the Board from amongst the members of the Board, one representing the employers and one representing the insured persons; (c) the Director General of the Organization; (d) a representative from the Treasury; and (e) (Deleted by Act A1508). (f) three other members with business and financial experience appointed by the Minister: 

76 Laws of Malaysia ACT 4 Provided that a person appointed in accordance with this paragraph shall, subject to the Ninth Schedule, serve for a period of two years from the date of his appointment. (3) The provisions of the Ninth Schedule shall apply to the Investment Panel. 75B. (Deleted by Act A981). Raising of loans 76. The Organization may, with the previous sanction of the Minister of Finance and on such terms as may be prescribed by him, raise loans and take measures for discharging such loans. Budget estimates 77. The Organization shall in each year frame a budget showing the probable receipts and the expenditure which it proposes to incur during the following year and shall submit a copy of the budget for the approval of the Minister before such date as may be fixed by him in that behalf and such budget shall contain provisions adequate in the opinion of the Minister for the discharge of the liabilities incurred by the Organization and for the maintenance of a working balance. Accounts 78. The Organization shall maintain proper accounts and records and shall prepare a statement of accounts in respect of each year or of such other period as the Minister may direct. Audit 79. (1) The accounts of the Organization shall be audited annually by the Auditor General. 

Employees’ Social Security 77 (2) The Auditor General or an officer delegated by him shall at all reasonable times have access to the books, accounts and other documents of the Organization and may, for the purposes of an audit, call for such explanation and information as he may require or examine any principal or other officer of the Organization. (3) The Board shall forward to the Minister a copy of the auditor’s report and any observations toge ther with an audited copy of the accounts of the Organization. The Minister may direct the Board to send a copy of the auditor’s report and of any statement of accounts to any Government department and such statement of accounts to the Auditor General as necessary. Annual Report 80. The Board shall submit to the Minister an annual report of the work and activities of the Organization before 30 June the following year unless otherwise extended by the Minister. Annual report and audited accounts 81. The annual report and the audited accounts of the Organization shall be laid before each House of Parliament. Valuation of assets and liabilities 82. The Board shall, at intervals of five years, cause an actuarial review to be carried out on the working of the schemes provided under this Act, involving a valuation of the assets and liabilities of the Organization, and such report shall be submitted to the Minister: Provided that it shall be open to the Minister to direct that such actuarial review and valuation be made at such other times as he may consider necessary. 

78 Laws of Malaysia ACT 4 PART V ADJUDICATION OF DISPUTE AND CLAIMS Constitution of Social Security Appellate Board 83. (1) The Minister shall, by notification in the Gazette constitute a Social Security Appella te Board (referred to as “the Board” in this Part) for such State or area as may be specified in the notification. (2) The Board shall consist of a Chairman and two assessors. (3) A person shall be qualified for appointment as Chairman of the Board if— (a) he is a citizen; and (b) for ten years preceding his appointment he has been a member of the Judicial and Legal Service of the Federation or an advocate and solicitor of the High Courts in Malaysia. (4) The Chairman shall be appointed by the Minister on such terms and conditions as may be specified by him. (5) The two assessors shall represent employers and employees and shall be selected by the Chairman from the panel of persons appointed under subsection (6). (6) The Minister shall, after consultati on with such organizations representing employers and employees respectively as he thinks fit, appoint a panel of such number of persons as he deems appropriate to serve as assessors. (7) (Deleted by Act A1232). (8) (Deleted by Act A1232). 

Employees’ Social Security 79 Matters to be decided by the Board 84. (1) If any question or dispute arises as to— (a) whether any person is an employee within the meaning of this Act or whether he is liable to pay the employee’s contribution; (b) the rate of wages or average daily wages of an emplo yee for the purposes of this Act; (c) the rate of contribution payable by a principal employer in respect of any employee; (d) a person who is or was the principal employer in respect of any employee; (e) the right of any person to any benefit and as to amount and duration of it; (f) any direction issued by the Organization under sections 35 and 36 on a review of any payment of invalidity pension or dependants’ benefits or survivors’ pension respectively; or (g) (Deleted by Act A590); (h) any other matter which is in dispute between a principal employer and the Organization, or between a principal employer and an immediate employer, or between a person and the Organization or between an employee and a principal or immediate employer, in respect of any contribution or benefit or other dues payable or recoverable under this Act, or any other matter required to be or which may be decided by the Board under this Act, such question or dispute subject to subsection (3) shall be decided by the Board in accordance with this Act. (2) Subject to subsection (3), the following claims shall be decided by the Board, namely: 

80 Laws of Malaysia ACT 4 (a) claim for the recovery of contributions from the principal employer; (b) claim by a principal employer to recover contributions from any immediate employer; (c) (Deleted by Act A590); (d) claim against a principal employer under section 48; (e) claim under section 50 for the recovery of the value of amount or the benefits received by a person when he is not lawfully entitled thereto; and (f) any claim for the recovery of any benefit a dmissible under this Act. (3) If in any proceedings before the Board an invalidity or disablement question arises and the decision of a medical board or appellate medical board has not been obtained on the same and the decision of such question is necess ary for the determination of the claim or question before the Board, the Board shall direct the Organization to have the question decided by this Act and shall thereafter proceed with the determination of the claim or question before it in accordance with the decision of the medical board or the appellate medical board. (4) No Civil Court shall have jurisdiction to decide or deal with any question or dispute mentioned in subsections (1) and (2) or to adjudicate on any liability which, by or under this Act, is to be decided by the Board. (5) No Civil Court shall have jurisdiction to decide or deal with any question or dispute which, by or under this Act, is to be decided by a medical board or by an appellate medical board. 

Employees’ Social Security 81 Institution of proceedings, etc. 85. (1) Subject to this Act and any regulations made thereunder, all proceedings before the Board shall be instituted in the Board appointed for the area in which the insured person was working at the time the question or dispute arose. (2) The Minister may transfer any matter pending before any Board in a State or area to any such Board in another State or area. (3) The Board to which any matter is transferred under subsection (2) shall continue the proceedings as if they had been originally instituted in it. Commencement of proceedings 86. (1) The proceedings before a Board shall be commenced by application. (2) Every such application shall be made within a period of three years from the date on which the cause of action arose. (3) For the purpose of subsection (2)— (a) the cause of action in respect of a claim for benefit shall not be deemed to arise unless the insured person or in the case of dependants’ benefit or survivors’ pension, the dependants of the insured person or, in the case of funeral benefit, the claimant, claims or claim that benefit in accordance with the regulations made in that behalf within a period of twelve months after the claim became due or within such further period as the Board may allow on grounds which appear to it to be reasonable; (b) the cause of action in respect of a claim by the Organization for recovering contributions from the principal employer or a claim by the principal employer for recovering contributions from an immediate employer shall not be deemed to arise till the date by which the evidence of 

82 Laws of Malaysia ACT 4 contributions having been paid is due to be received by the Organization under the regulations; (c) every such application shall be in such form and shall contain such particulars and shall be accompanied by such fee, if any, as may be prescribed by the regulations. Powers of Social Security Appellate Board 87. (1) The Board shall have all the powers of a Sessions Court Judge for the purposes of summoning and enforcing the attendance of witnesses, compelling the discovery and production of documents and material objects, administering oath and recording evidence. (2) The Board shall follow such procedure as may be prescribed by regulations. (3) All costs incidental to any proceedings before a Board, shall, subject to such regulations as may be made in this behalf, be in the discretion of the Board. (4) An order of the Board shall be enforceable as if it were a judgment of a Sessions Court notwithstanding that the same may be in respect of an amount in excess of the ordinary jurisdiction of the said Court. Appearance by legal practitioners, etc. 88. Any application, appearance or act required to be made or done by any person to or before a Board (other than appearance of a person required for the purposes of his examination as a witness) may be made or done by a legal practitioner or by an officer of a registered trade union authorized in writing by such person or with the permission of the Board, by any other person so authorized. 

Employees’ Social Security 83 Benefit not admissible unless claimed in time 89. A Board shall not direct the payment of any benefit to a person unless he has made a claim for such benefit in accordance with the regulations made in that behalf and section 86: Provided that if the Board is satisfied that t here was reasonable excuse for not making a claim for the benefit within the prescribed period, it may direct the payment of the benefit as if the claim had been made in time. Reference to High Court 90. A Board may submit any question of law for the de cision of the High Court and if it does so shall decide the question pending before it in accordance with such decision. Appeal 91. (1) Save as expressly provided in this section, no appeal shall lie from an order of the appellate boards set up by or under this Act. (2) An appeal shall lie to the High Court from an order of an appellate board set up by or under this Act if it involves a substantial question of law. (3) The period of limitation for an appeal under this section shall be sixty days from the date the order is made. Stay of payment pending appeal 92. Where the Organization has presented an appeal against an order of the Board, that Board may, and if so directed by the High Court shall, pending the decision of the appeal, withhold the payment of any sum directed to be paid by the order appealed against. 

84 Laws of Malaysia ACT 4 PART VI PENALTIES Punishment for false information 93. Where any person, for the purpose of causing any increase in payment or benefit under this Act, or for the purpose of causing any payment or benefit to be made where no payment or benefit is authorized by or under this Act, or for the purpose of avoiding any payment to be made by himself under this Act, or enabling any other person to avoid any such payment— (a) makes or causes to be m ade any false statement or false representation; or (b) makes in writing or signs any declaration, form, report, certificate or other document required by this Act or any regulations made thereunder which is untrue or incorrect in any material particular, shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to two years, or with a fine not exceeding ten thousand ringgit, or with both. Punishment for failure to pay contributions, etc. 94. If any person— (a) fails to pay any contribution or any par t thereof which is payable by him under this Act or fails to pay within the time prescribed by regulations any interest payable under section 14A; (b) deducts or attempts to deduct from the wages of an employee the whole or any part of the employer’s contribution; (c) in contravention of section 52 reduces the wages or any privileges or benefits admissible to an employee; 

Employees’ Social Security 85 (d) in contravention of section 53 or any regulation dismisses, discharges, reduces or otherwise punishes an employee; (e) fails or refuses to submit any return or accident report required by the regulations, or makes a false return or report; (f) obstructs any Inspector or other official of the Organization in the discharge of his duties; or (g) is guilty of any contravention of or non-compliance with any of the requirements of this Act or the rules or the regulations in respect of which no special penalty is provided, he shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to two years, or with fine not exceeding ten thousand ringgit, or with both. Court’s order in respect of contributions due and payable to the Organization 94A. (1) Upon any person being found guilty of any offence under paragraph 94 (a), the Court before which the person is found guilty shall order such person to pay to the Organization the amount of any contributions, together with any interest credited on it, due and payable to the Organization and certified by the authorized officer of the Organization to be due from such person prior to the date of such finding of guilt, and the certificate of the authorized officer shall be prima facie evidence of the amount due and payable. (2) Such contributions shall be recoverable in the same manner as, and shall be appealable as if it were, an order for payment of compensation und er section 426 of the Criminal Procedure Code [Act 593], except that where the Court directs payment of the sum to be made by instalments, the Court shall direct that the sum be paid in not more than six instalments. (3) Upon any person being found guil ty of any offence under paragraph 94(e) pertaining to the submission of an accident report, the Court before which the person is found guilty shall order such person 

86 Laws of Malaysia ACT 4 to submit the required accident report within the time to be determined by the Court. Trial for more than one offence 94B. Notwithstanding the provisions of any written law to the contrary, any person may be charged with and tried at any one trial for any number of offences under paragraph 94 (a) not exceeding thirty - six and such offences sha ll, for the purposes of the law for the time being in force relating to criminal procedure, be deemed to form part of the same transaction. Copy of entry to be prima facie evidence 94C. In any legal proceeding, a copy of an entry in the accounts of the Organization duly certified under the hand of an authorized officer of the Organization shall be prima facie evidence of such entry having been made and of the truth of the contents thereof. Prosecution 95. (1) No prosecution shall be instituted for an offence under this Act or any regulations made under this Act except by or with the consent in writing of the Public Prosecutor. (2) (Deleted by Act A1232). (3) (Deleted by Act A675). Compounding of offences 95A. (1) The Director General or any officer authorized in writing by the Director General may , with the consent in wri ting of the Public Prosecutor, compound any offence committed by any person under this Act or the regulations made under this Act and prescribed by the Minister to be a compoun dable offence by regulations made 

Employees’ Social Security 87 under this Act by making a written offer to the person suspected to have committed the offence to compound the offence upon payment to the Director General of an amount of money not exceeding fifty percent of the amount of maximum fine for that offence within the time specified in the offer. (2) An offer under subsection (1) may be made at any time after the offence has been committed, but before any prosecution for it has been instituted, and if the amount specified in the offer is not paid within the time specified in the offer or within such extended period as the Director General may grant, prosecution for the offence may be instituted at any time after that against the person to whom the offer was made. (3) If an of fence has been compounded under subsection (1), no prosecution shall be instituted in respect of the offence against the person to whom the offer to compound was made and any thing seized in connection with the offence may be released or forfeited by the Director General, subject to such terms and conditions as he thinks fit. PART VII MISCELLANEOUS Insured person not entitled to more than one benefit 96. (1) An insured person shall not be allowed to receive, for the same period and in respect of the sam e disablement, invalidity pension and permanent disablement benefit. (2) Where a person is entitled to both benefits, he may choose which benefit he shall receive for that period. Dependant not entitled to both survivor’s pension and dependants’ benefit for the same period 96A. (1) A dependant shall not be allowed to receive, for the same period in respect of the same insured person, survivors’ pension and dependants’ benefit. 

88 Laws of Malaysia ACT 4 (2) Where a dependant is entitled to both survivors’ pension and dependants’ benefit, he may choose to receive the benefit which is payable at the higher rate. Exemption of industry or class of industries 97. The Minister may, by notification in the Gazette and subject to such conditions as may be specified in the notification , exempt any industry or class of industries in any specified area from the operation of this Act for a period not exceeding one year and may from time to time by like notification renew any such exemption, for periods not exceeding one year at a time. Exemption of persons or class of persons 98. The Minister may, by notification in the Gazette and subject to such conditions as he may deem fit to impose, exempt any person or class of persons employed in any industry or class of industries to which this Act applies from the operation of the Act. Organization to make representation 99. No exemption shall be granted or renewed under sections 97 and 98, unless a reasonable opportunity has been given to the Organization to make any representation it may wish to make in regard to the proposal and such representation has been considered by the Minister. Exemption of industries belonging to Government or local authority 100. The Minister may, by notification in the Gazette and subject to such conditions as may be specified in the notification, exempt any industry or class of industries belonging to the Federal Government or any State Government or any local authority or statutory authority, from the operation of this Act, if the employees in any such industr y 

Employees’ Social Security 89 or class of industries are otherwise in receipt of benefits substantially similar or superior to the benefits provided under this Act. Exemption from one or more provisions of the Act 101. The Minister may, by notification in the Gazette, exempt any employee or class of employees in any industry or class of industries from one or more of the provisions relating to the benefits provided under this Act. Contributions, etc., due to Organization to have priority over other debts 102. There shall be deem ed to be included among the debts which, under any written law relating to insolvency in force in the country, are in the distribution of the property of the insolvent or in the distribution of the assets of a company being wound up, to be paid in priority to all other debts, the amount due in respect of any contribution or any other amount payable under this Act the liability wherefor accrued before the date of the order of adjudication of the insolvent or the date of the winding up. Exercise of powers and functions of the Organization 103. All powers and functions which may be exercised by the Organization under this Act shall be exercised by the Director General or by any officer of the Organization authorized by him or by an authority authorized by the Minister. Disposal of documents after more than three years 103A. (1) The Director General may authorize any paper -based document belonging to the Organization to be copied onto an electronic medium by such means as to ensure that the exact image of that document is capable of being viewed, reproduced and copied. 

90 Laws of Malaysia ACT 4 (2) Where a paper-based document has been copied in accordance with subsection (1), the Director General may authorize the disposal of the paper-based document after the expiry of a period of three years from the making of such electronic copy. (3) A copy of the document kept on an electronic medium in accordance with subsection (1) shall be admissible as evidence of any fact stated in it in accordance with section 90 A of the Evidence Act 1950 [Act 56]. 104. (Deleted by Act 478). Power of the Minister to make regulations 105. (1) The Minister may make regulations, not inconsistent with this Act, for the administration of the affairs of the Organization and for carrying into effect this Act. (2) In particular and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power, such regulations may provide for all or any of the following matters, namely: (i) (Deleted by Act A675); (ii) (Deleted by Act A675); (iii) the manner in which any contribution payable under this Act shall be assessed and collected; (iv) the levy of interest at a rate not less than six per cent per annum on contributions due but not paid subject to the minimum of five ringgit in respect of each month or part of a month in default beyond t he due date and the conditions under which such levy may be waived; (v) the interest payable in respect of the amount payable towards invalidity grants; 

Employees’ Social Security 91 (vi) reckoning of wages for the purpose of fixing the contribution payable under this Act; (vii) the certification of disability and eligibility for any cash benefit; (viii) the method of determining the actuarial present value of periodical payments; (ix) the assessing of the money value of any benefit which is not a cash benefit; (x) the time within which and the form in which any claim for a benefit may be made and the particulars to be specified in such claims; (xi) the circumstances in which an employee in receipt of disablement benefit may be dismissed, discharged, reduced or otherwise punished; (xii) the manner in which and the place a nd time at which any benefit shall be paid; (xiii) the method of calculating the amount of cash benefit payable and the circumstances in which and the extent to which commutation of disablement and dependants’ benefits, may be allowed and the method of calculati ng the commutation value; (xiv) the conditions under which any benefit may be suspended; (xv) the conditions to be observed by a person when in receipt of any benefit and the periodical medical examination of such persons; (xvi) the visiting of disabled persons; (xvii) the appointment of medical practitioners for the purpose of this Act, the duties of such practitioners and the form of medical certificates; 

92 Laws of Malaysia ACT 4 (xviii) the penalties for breach of regulations by fine (not exceeding two days’ wages for a first breach and not exceeding thre e days’ wages for any subsequent breach) which may be imposed on employees; (xix) the circumstances in which and the conditions subject to which any regulations may be relaxed, the extent of such relaxation and the authority by whom such relaxation may be granted; (xx) the returns and reports to be submitted and the registers or records to be maintained by the principal and immediate employers, the forms of such returns, reports, registers or records and the times at which such returns and reports be submitted and t he particulars which such returns, registers and records shall contain; (xxa) the offences under this Act or any subsidiary legislation made under this Act which may be compounded, and the criteria, method and procedure for compounding such compoundable offences; (xxi) the duties and powers of Inspectors and other officers and servants of the Organization; (xxia) the constitution of medical boards, including the Special Medical Board; (xxii) the constitution of the Social Security Appellate Boards and Appellate Medical Boards, the qualifications of persons who may be appointed chairman and members thereof, and the conditions of service of such chairman and members; (xxiii) the procedure to be followed in proceedings before the Social Security Appellate Boards and Appellate Medical Boards and the execution of decisions by such Appellate Boards; (xxiv) the fee payable in respect of applications made to the Social Security Appellate Boards, the cost incidental to the proceedings in such boards, form in which applications 

Employees’ Social Security 93 should be made to them and the particulars to be specified in such applications; (xxv) the establishment of hospitals, dispensaries and other institutions, the allotment of insured persons to any such hospital, dispensary or other institution in consultation with the Ministry of Health; (xxvi) the scale of medical benefit which shall be provided at any hospital, clinic, dispensary or institution, the keeping of medical records and the furnishing of statistical returns; (xxvii) the nature and extent of the staff, equipment and medicines that shall be provided at such hospitals, dispensaries and institutions; (xxviii) the procedure to be followed in remitting contributions to the Organization; (xxix) the registration of industries; (xxx) matters which must be covered by the periodical valuation of the assets and liabilities of the Organization; (xxxi) the investment of the Social Security Fund and its transfer or realization, the bank or banks in which the funds of the Organization may be deposited, the raising and repayment of loans and financial control and procedures in consultation with the Minister of Finance; (xxxia) the imposition of a fee or a charge for providing any information or document which is in the custody of the Organization; and (xxxii) any matter in respect of which regulations are required or permitted to be made by this Act. Duty of Board to review benefits 106. Without prejudice to section 59I, when substantial changes in the general level of earnings result from substantial changes in the cost of living, the Board shall examine the situation on the basis of an actuarial 

94 Laws of Malaysia ACT 4 valuation made under section 82 and shall make recommendations to the Minister to adjust the Scheme of Social Insurance in order to maintain the real value of certain cash benefits. The recommendations of the Board, which shall be accompanied by the actuarial report and shall take account of Government social policy, may include— (a) proposals for a new scale of wage classes and of contributions; (b) proposals for changes in the rates of specified cash benefits including the rates of pensions already in payment; and (c) extension of benefits. Rates of benefit 106A. The rates of benefits as stipulated in sections 20, 20A, 30 and in the Fourth Schedule shall apply to all benefit cases in payment as at the date of coming into force of these rates: Provided that any benefits and additions to benefits already provided by law shall be deducted from the new recomputed rates as provided by those sections: And provided further that this section shall not affect any case where the benefit already paid is more than the new recomputed rates: And provided further that in the case where the insured person who is in receipt of invalidity pension dies before 1 February 1986, the amount of the monthly rate of invalidity pension for the purposes of survivors’ pension under section 20A shall be the amount the deceased insured person is entitled to had he been alive in the month of January 1986. 

Employees’ Social Security 95 Addition of benefits 107. Any other benefits may be added to the benefits provided by this Act, subject to such scale and terms and conditions as may be provided by law; and such law shall form part of this Act. Power to remove difficulties 108. (1) If any difficulty arises in giving effect to this Act, the Minister of Human Resources or the Minister of Fi nance, may, by order published in the Gazette, make such provisions or give such directions, not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, as appear to him to be necessary or expedient for removing the difficulty. (2) Any order made under this sectio n shall have effect notwithstanding anything inconsistent therewith in any regulations made under this Act. Joint and several liability of directors 108A. Where any sum of money by way of contributions together with any interest due thereon remain unpai d by a company, a firm or an association of persons, then, notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Act or any other written law, the directors of such company including any person who was a director of such company during the period in which the c ontributions were payable, or a member of such firm including any person who was a member of the firm during the period in which the contributions were payable or the office-bearers of such association of persons, including any person who was an office -bearer of such association during the period in which the contributions were payable, shall together with the company, firm or association of persons be jointly and severally liable for the contributions together with interest due and payable thereon to the Organization. 

96 Laws of Malaysia ACT 4 Recovery of contribution, etc. 109. Without prejudice to any other method of recovery of contribution or other sum payable or recoverable under the provisions of this Act, any debt due to the Organization may be recoverable as if it is an arrear of land rent or an arrear of a sum payable to a local authority: Provided that this section shall not become operative in a State until adopted by the Legislature of that State. Powers of Director General 110. (1) For the purposes of this Act, the Director General and such other officers of the Organization as may be authorized by him in this behalf shall have all the powers of a Sessions Court Judge for the summoning and examination of employers, insured persons, witnesses and other persons and the administration of oaths or affirmations and for compelling the production of documents and material objects. (2) Any person who in any way wilfully obstructs the service of or obedience to any summons and any person summoned who neglects to attend and to produce documents as required in such summons shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to two years, or with a fine not exceeding ten thousand ringgit, or to both. (3) The Director General or such other officer authorized b y him shall be deemed to be a public servant within the meaning of the Penal Code. Organization to deal with authorized person 111. (1) In all matters pertaining to benefits under this Act, the Organization may deal directly with the insured person or his dependants, or an official of a registered trade union authorized in writing by such insured person or his dependants, or a legal practitioner representing such insured person or his dependants. 

Employees’ Social Security 97 (2) The Organization may refuse to entertain any repres entation made by any other person. Benefit for two or more successive accidents 112. (1) Where a person sustains permanent disablement as a result of two or more successive accidents, he shall not for the same period be entitled to receive disablement b enefit for permanent disablement in excess of the daily rate for permanent total disablement. (2) The Minister may make regulations to provide for adjusting the disablement benefit payable in respect of successive accidents or the conditions for the rece ipt of such benefit in any case where the disablement benefit has been commuted into a lump sum. Electronic submission of documents 112A. (1) Subject to subsection (2), the Organization may allow any returns, statements, particulars, records, notice, r eports, register or other documents required to be submitted or furnished under this Act or regulations made under this Act by an electronic medium or by way of an electronic transmission. (2) The conditions and specifications under which the returns, statements, particulars, records, notice, reports, register or other documents referred to in subsection (1) are to be submitted or furnished shall be as determined by the Organization. (3) The returns, statements, particulars, records, notice, reports, register or other documents referred to in subsection (1) shall be deemed to have been submitted or furnished by a person to the Organization on the date the acknowledgment of receipt of such documents is transmitted electronically by the Organization to t he person. (4) The acknowledgment of receipt by the Organization, returns, statements, particulars, records, notice, reports, register or other 

98 Laws of Malaysia ACT 4 documents submitted or furnished pursuant to subsection (3) shall be admissible as evidence in any proceedings. FIRST SCHEDULE [Section 3] (1) (Deleted by Act A1508). (2) Any person whose employment is of casual nature and who is employed otherwise than for the purposes of the employer’s industry. (3) (Deleted by P.U. (A) 247/2021). (4) A tributer, that is, a person who is permitted to win minerals or produce of any kind from or on the land of another and who, in consideration of such permission, gives a proportion of the minerals or produce so won to that other person or pays to him the value of such proportion. (5) (Deleted by P.U. (A) 144/2018). (6) Any member of the Malaysian Armed Forces or of any Local Forces established under any written law or of any Visiting Force lawfully present in Malaysia under any written law relating to Visiting Forces. (7) Any police officer, and any other person engaged to perform police duties in accordance with the provisions of any written law while so performing such duties. (8) Any person detained in any prison, Henry Gurney School, approved school, detention camp, mental hospital, or leper settlement. (9)–(11) (Deleted by Act A814). (12) In so far as this Act relating to invalidity pension are concerned— (i) an employee who has attained the age of fifty-five years and in respect of whom no contributions were payable before he attained the age of fifty- five years; (ii) an employee who has attained the age of sixty years; (iii) a certified invalid who is in receipt of invalidity pension; and (iv) a foreign worker, except— 

Employees’ Social Security 99 (a) a non-citizen who is residing permanently in Malaysia and issued with an identity card as described under paragraph 5(3)(b) of the National Registration Regulations 1990 [P.U. (A) 472/1990]; (b) a person who— (i) lawfully enters Malaysia under a valid immigration pass or permit; (ii) is allowed to reside in Ma laysia for a period of twelve months and above; and (iii) is issued with an identity card as described under paragraph 5(3)(c) of the National Registration Regulations 1990; and (c) a person who is born in Malaysia but whose citizenship status cannot be determined , and issued with an identity card as described under paragraph 5(3) (c) of the National Registration Regulations 1990. (13) (Deleted by Act A1445). SECOND SCHEDULE [Section 2] PART I List of injuries deemed to result in permanent total disablement Serial No. Description of Injury Percentage of loss of earning capacity 1. Loss of both hands or amputation at higher sites 100 2. Loss of a hand and a foot 100 3. Double amputation through leg or thigh, or amputation through leg or thigh on one side and loss of other foot 100 

100 Laws of Malaysia ACT 4 Serial No. Description of Injury Percentage of loss of earning capacity 4. Loss of sight to such an extent as to render the claimant unable to perform any work for which eye -sight is essential 100 5. Very severe facial disfigurement 100 6. Absolute deafness 100 PART II List of injuries deemed to result in permanent partial disablement Amputation—upper limbs (either arm) cases Serial No. Description of Injury Percentage of loss of earning capacity 1. Amputation through shoulder joint 90 2. Amputation below shoulder with stump less than 8” from tip of acromion 80 3. Amputation below 8” from tip of acromion to less than 41/2” below tip of olecranon 70 4. Loss of a hand or of the thumb and four fingers of one hand or amputation from 41/2” below tip of olecranon 60 5. Loss of thumb 30 6. Loss of thumb and its metacarpal bone 40 7. Loss of four fingers of one hand 50 8. Loss of three fingers of one hand 30 

Employees’ Social Security 101 Serial No. Description of Injury Percentage of loss of earning capacity 9. Loss of two fingers of one hand 20 10. Loss of terminal phalanx of thumb 20 Amputation—lower limbs cases 11. Amputation of both feet resulting in end -bearing stumps 90 12. Amputation through both feet proximal to the metatarso-phalangeal joint 80 13. Loss of all toes of both feet through the metatarso - phalangeal joint 40 14. Loss of all toes of both feet pro ximal to the proximal inter-phalangeal joint 30 15. Loss of all toes of both feet distal to the proximal inter- phalangeal joint 20 16. Amputation at hip 90 17. Amputation below hip with stump not exceeding 5” in length measured from tip of great trenchanter 80 18. Amputation below hip with stump exceeding 5” in length measured from tip of great trenchanter but not beyond middle thigh 70 19. Amputation below middle thigh to 31/2” below knee 60 20. Amputation below knee with stump exceeding 3 1/2” but not exceeding 5” 50 21. Amputation below knee with stump exceeding 5” 40 22. Amputation of one foot resulting in end-bearing 30 

102 Laws of Malaysia ACT 4 Serial No. Description of Injury Percentage of loss of earning capacity 23. Amputation through one foot proximal to the metatarso-phalangeal joint 30 24. Loss of all toes of one foot through the m etatarso- phalangeal joint 20 Other injuries 25. Loss of one eye, without complications, the other being normal 40 26. Loss of vision of one eye without complications or disfigurement of eye-ball, the other being normal 30 27. Permanent total loss of hearing in one ear 20 Loss of— A—Fingers of right or left hand Index finger 28. Whole 14 29. Two phalanges 11 30. One phalanx 9 31. Guillotine amputation of tip without loss of bone 5 Middle finger 32. Whole 12 33. Two phalanges 9 34. One phalanx 7 35. Guillotine amputation of tip without loss of bone 4 Ring or little finger 

Employees’ Social Security 103 Serial No. Description of Injury Percentage of loss of earning capacity 36. Whole 7 37. Two phalanges 6 38. One phalanx 5 39. Guillotine amputation of tip without loss of bone 2 B—Toes of right or left foot Great toe 40. Through metatarso-phalangeal joint 14 41. Part, with some loss of bone 3 Any other toe 42. Through metatarso-phalangeal joint 3 43. Part, with some loss of bone 1 Two toes of one foot, excluding great toe 44. Through metatarso-phalangeal joint 5 45. Part, with some loss of bone 2 Three toes of one foot, excluding great toe 46. Through metatarso-phalangeal joint 6 47. Part, with some loss of bone 3 Four toes of one foot, excluding great toe 48. Through metatarso-phalangeal joint 9 49. Part, with some loss of bone 3 

104 Laws of Malaysia ACT 4 (NOTE—complete and permanent loss of the use of any limb or member referred to in this Schedule shall be deemed to be the equivalent of the loss of that limb or member.) THIRD SCHEDULE [Section 6] RATES OF CONTRIBUTION 1. Contributions of the First and Second categories shall be calculated with reference to monthly wages and paid at the rates indicated below. 1A. For the purposes of this Schedule— (a) “Monthly wages” means wages payable to an employee in respect of all wage periods ending in the month; and (b) “Wage period” means the period in respect of which wages earned by an employee are payable. 2. Part I —Contributions of the First category —for Invalidity and Employment Injury. Monthly Wages Employer’s Contribution Employee’s Contribution Total 1. Wages up to RM30 … … … 40 sen 10 sen 50 sen 2. When wages exceed RM30 but not RM50 … 70 sen 20 sen 90 sen 3. When wages exceed RM50 but not RM70 … RM1.10 30 sen RM1.40 4. When wages exceed RM70 but not RM100 … RM1.50 40 sen RM1.90 5. When wages exceed RM100 but not RM140 … RM2.10 60 sen RM2.70 6. When wages exceed RM140 but not RM200 … RM2.95 85 sen RM3.80 7. When wages exceed RM200 but not RM300 … RM4.35 RM1.25 RM5.60 8. When wages exceed RM300 but not RM400 … RM6.15 RM1.75 RM7.90 9. When wages exceed RM400 but not RM500 … RM7.85 RM2.25 RM10.10 10. When wages exceed RM500 but not RM600 … RM9.65 RM2.75 RM12.40 

Employees’ Social Security 105 Monthly Wages Employer’s Contribution Employee’s Contribution Total 11. When wages exceed RM600 but not RM700 … RM11.35 RM3.25 RM14.60 12. When wages exceed RM700 but not RM800 … RM13.15 RM3.75 RM16.90 13. When wages exceed RM800 but not RM900 … RM14.85 RM4.25 RM19.10 14. When wages exceed RM900 but not RM1,000 RM16.65 RM4.75 RM21.40 15. When wages exceed RM1,000 but not RM1,100 RM18.35 RM5.25 RM23.60 16. When wages exceed RM1,100 but not RM1,200 RM20.15 RM5.75 RM25.90 17. When wages exceed RM1,200 but not RM1,300 RM21.85 RM6.25 RM28.10 18. When wages exceed RM1,300 but not RM1,400 RM23.65 RM6.75 RM30.40 19. When wages exceed RM1,400 but not RM1,500 RM25.35 RM7.25 RM32.60 20. When wages exceed RM1,500 but not RM1,600 RM27.15 RM7.75 RM34.90 21. When wages exceed RM1,600 but not RM1,700 RM28.85 RM8.25 RM37.10 22. When wages exceed RM1,700 but not RM1,800 RM30.65 RM8.75 RM39.40 23. When wages exceed RM1,800 but not RM1,900 RM32.35 RM9.25 RM41.60 24. When wages exceed RM1,900 but not RM2,000 RM34.15 RM9.75 RM43.90 25. When wages exceed RM2,000 but not RM2,100 RM35.85 RM10.25 RM46.10 26. When wages exceed RM2,100 but not RM2,200 RM37.65 RM10.75 RM48.40 27. When wages exceed RM2,200 but not RM2,300 RM39.35 RM11.25 RM50.60 28. When wages exceed RM2,300 but not RM2,400 RM41.15 RM11.75 RM52.90 29. When wages exceed RM2,400 but not RM2,500 RM42.85 RM12.25 RM55.10 30. When wages exceed RM2,500 but not RM2,600 RM44.65 RM12.75 RM57.40 31. When wages exceed RM2,600 but not RM2,700 RM46.35 RM13.25 RM59.60 32. When wages exceed RM2,700 but not RM2,800 RM48.15 RM13.75 RM61.90 33. When wages exceed RM2,800 but not RM2,900 RM49.85 RM14.25 RM64.10 34. When wages exceed RM2,900 but not RM3,000 RM51.65 RM14.75 RM66.40 

106 Laws of Malaysia ACT 4 Monthly Wages Employer’s Contribution Employee’s Contribution Total 35. When wages exceed RM3,000 but not RM3,100 RM53.35 RM15.25 RM68.60 36. When wages exceed RM3,100 but not RM3,200 RM55.15 RM15.75 RM70.90 37. When wages exceed RM3,200 but not RM3,300 RM56.85 RM16.25 RM73.10 38. When wages exceed RM3,300 but not RM3,400 RM58.65 RM16.75 RM75.40 39. When wages exceed RM3,400 but not RM3,500 RM60.35 RM17.25 RM77.60 40. When wages exceed RM3,500 but not RM3,600 RM62.15 RM17.75 RM79.90 41. When wages exceed RM3,600 but not RM3,700 RM63.85 RM18.25 RM82.10 42. When wages exceed RM3,700 but not RM3,800 RM65.65 RM18.75 RM84.40 43. When wages exceed RM3,800 but not RM3,900 RM67.35 RM19.25 RM86.60 44. When wages exceed RM3,900 but not RM4,000 RM69.15 RM19.75 RM88.90 45. When wages exceed RM4,000 but not RM4,100 RM70.85 RM20.25 RM91.10 46. When wages exceed RM4,100 but not RM4,200 RM72.65 RM20.75 RM93.40 47. When wages exceed RM4,200 but not RM4,300 RM74.35 RM21.25 RM95.60 48. When wages exceed RM4,300 but not RM4,400 RM76.15 RM21.75 RM97.90 49. When wages exceed RM4,400 but not RM4,500 RM77.85 RM22.25 RM100.10 50. When wages exceed RM4,500 but not RM4,600 RM79.65 RM22.75 RM102.40 51. When wages exceed RM4,600 but not RM4,700 RM81.35 RM23.25 RM104.60 52. When wages exceed RM4,700 but not RM4,800 RM83.15 RM23.75 RM106.90 53. When wages exceed RM4,800 but not RM4,900 RM84.85 RM24.25 RM109.10 54. When wages exceed RM4,900 but not RM5,000 RM86.65 RM24.75 RM111.40 55. When wages exceed RM5,000 RM86.65 RM24.75 RM111.40 3. (Deleted by Act A814). 4. Part III —Contributions of the Second category for the contingency of Employment Injury only. (Contributions to be paid entirely by the Employer). 

Employees’ Social Security 107 Monthly Wages Employer’s Contribution 1. Wages up to RM30 … … … … … … … 30 sen 2. When wages exceed RM30 but not RM50 … … … … 50 sen 3. When wages exceed RM50 but not RM70 … … … … 80 sen 4. When wages exceed RM70 but not RM100 … … … RM1.10 5. When wages exceed RM100 but not RM140 … … … RM1.50 6. When wages exceed RM140 but not RM200 … … … RM2.10 7. When wages exceed RM200 but not RM300 … … … RM3.10 8. When wages exceed RM300 but not RM400 … … … RM4.40 9. When wages exceed RM400 but not RM500 … … … RM5.60 10. When wages exceed RM500 but not RM600 … … … RM6.90 11. When wages exceed RM600 but not RM700 … … … RM8.10 12. . When wages exceed RM700 but not RM800 … … … RM9.40 13. . When wages exceed RM800 but not RM900 … … … RM10.60 14. . When wages exceed RM900 but not RM1,000 … … … RM11.90 15. . When wages exceed RM1,000 but not RM1,100 … … RM13.10 16. When wages exceed RM1,100 but not RM1,200 … … RM14.40 17. When wages exceed RM1,200 but not RM1,300 … … RM15.60 18. When wages exceed RM1,300 but not RM1,400 … … RM16.90 19. When wages exceed RM1,400 but not RM1,500 … … RM18.10 20. When wages exceed RM1,500 but not RM1,600 … … RM19.40 21. When wages exceed RM1,600 but not RM1,700 … … RM20.60 22. When wages exceed RM1,700 but not RM1,800 … … RM21.90 23. When wages exceed RM1,800 but not RM1,900 … … RM23.10 24. When wages exceed RM1,900 but not RM2,000 … … RM24.40 

108 Laws of Malaysia ACT 4 Monthly Wages Employer’s Contribution 25. When wages exceed RM2,000 but not RM2,100 … … RM25.60 26. When wages exceed RM2,100 but not RM2,200 … … RM26.90 27. When wages exceed RM2,200 but not RM2,300 … … RM28.10 28. When wages exceed RM2,300 but not RM2,400 … … RM29.40 29. When wages exceed RM2,400 but not RM2,500 … … RM30.60 30. . When wages exceed RM2,500 but not RM2,600 … … RM31.90 31. When wages exceed RM2,600 but not RM2,700 … … RM33.10 32. . When wages exceed RM2,700 but not RM2,800 … … RM34.40 33. When wages exceed RM2,800 but not RM2,900 … … RM35.60 34. When wages exceed RM2,900 but not RM3,000 … … RM36.90 35. When wages exceed RM3,000 but not RM3,100 … … RM38.10 36. When wages exceed RM3,100 but not RM3,200 … … RM39.40 37. When wages exceed RM3,200 but not RM3,300 … … RM40.60 38. When wages exceed RM3,300 but not RM3,400 … … RM41.90 39. When wages exceed RM3,400 but not RM3,500 … … RM43.10 40. . When wages exceed RM3,500 but not RM3,600 … … RM44.40 41. When wages exceed RM3,600 but not RM3,700 … … RM45.60 42. When wages exceed RM3,700 but not RM3,800 … … RM46.90 43. . When wages exceed RM3,800 but not RM3,900 … … RM48.10 44. When wages exceed RM3,900 but not RM4,000 RM49.40 45. When wages exceed RM4,000 but not RM4,100 RM50.60 46. When wages exceed RM4,100 but not RM4,200 RM51.90 47. . When wages exceed RM4,200 but not RM4,300 RM53.10 48. When wages exceed RM4,300 but not RM4,400 RM54.40 

Employees’ Social Security 109 Monthly Wages Employer’s Contribution 49. When wages exceed RM4,400 but not RM4,500 RM55.60 50. When wages exceed RM4,500 but not RM4,600 RM56.90 51. . When wages exceed RM4,600 but not RM4,700 RM58.10 52. When wages exceed RM4,700 but not RM4,800 RM59.40 53. When wages exceed RM4,800 but not RM4,900 RM60.60 54. When wages exceed RM4,900 but not RM5,000 RM61.90 55. When wages exceed RM5,000 RM61.90 FOURTH SCHEDULE [Sections 20, 22, 26] DISABLEMENT BENEFIT AND DEPENDANTS’ BENEFIT 1. (1) Daily rate of benefit shall be as follows: (a) for temporary disablement, an amount equivalent to eighty per cent of the assumed average daily wage; (b) for permanent total disablement, an amount equivalent to ninety per cent of the assumed average daily wage. (2) For the purposes of this paragraph, “assumed average daily wage” means the assumed average daily wage of the insured person who sustains the employment injury resulting in such disablement. 2. Assumed average daily wage under the foregoing paragraph shall be equal to one-thirtieth of the assumed average monthly wage of the insured person. 3. Assumed average monthly wage mentioned in paragraph 2 shall be an amount equivalent to the sum of the assumed monthly wages for each of the months for which contributions of the First or Second Category have been paid or were payable during the continuous period of six months immediately preceding the month in which the employment injury occurred, d ivided by the number of months for which such contributions were so paid or payable: 

110 Laws of Malaysia ACT 4 Provided that in the event the insured person has been in employment for less than 24 days in any month, the contributions paid or payable for that month in respect of him shall not be taken into consideration for the calculation of the assumed average monthly wage. 4. Assumed monthly wage mentioned in paragraph 3 for every month shall be the amount shown in the following table as corresponding to the rate of contributio n of the First or Second category paid or payable for that month. Actual monthly wage of the month First Category Second Category Corresponding assumed monthly wage for the month 1. Wages up to RM30 50 sen 30 sen RM20 2. When wages exceed RM30 but not RM50 90 sen 50 sen RM40 3. When wages exceed RM50 but not RM70 RM1.40 80 sen RM60 4. When wages exceed RM70 but not RM100 RM1.90 RM1.10 RM85 5. When wages exceed RM100 but not RM140 RM2.70 RM1.50 RM120 6. When wages exceed RM140 but not RM200 RM3.80 RM2.10 RM170 7. When wages exceed RM200 but not RM300 RM5.60 RM3.10 RM250 8. When wages exceed RM300 but not RM400 RM7.90 RM4.40 RM350 9. When wages exceed RM400 but not RM500 RM10.10 RM5.60 RM450 10. When wages exceed RM500 but not RM600 RM12.40 RM6.90 RM550 11. When wages exceed RM600 but not RM700 RM14.60 RM8.10 RM650 12. When wages exceed RM700 but not RM800 RM16.90 RM9.40 RM750 13. When wages exceed RM800 but not RM900 RM19.10 RM10.60 RM850 14. When wages exceed RM900 but not RM1,000 RM21.40 RM11.90 RM950 15. When wages exceed RM1,000 but not RM1,100 RM23.60 RM13.10 RM1,050 16. When wages exceed RM1,100 but not RM1,200 RM25.90 RM14.40 RM1,150 17. When wages exceed RM1,200 but not RM1,300 RM28.10 RM15.60 RM1,250 

Employees’ Social Security 111 Actual monthly wage of the month First Category Second Category Corresponding assumed monthly wage for the month 18. When wages exceed RM1,300 but not RM1,400 RM30.40 RM16.90 RM1,350 19. When wages exceed RM1,400 but not RM1,500 RM32.60 RM18.10 RM1,450 20. When wages exceed RM1,500 but not RM1,600 RM34.90 RM19.40 RM1,550 21. When wages exceed RM1,600 but not RM1,700 RM37.10 RM20.60 RM1,650 22. When wages exceed RM1,700 but not RM1,800 RM39.40 RM21.90 RM1,750 23. When wages exceed RM1,800 but not RM1,900 RM41.60 RM23.10 RM1,850 24. When wages exceed RM1,900 but not RM2,000 RM43.90 RM24.40 RM1,950 25. When wages exceed RM2,000 but not RM2,100 RM46.10 RM25.60 RM2,050 26. When wages exceed RM2,100 but not RM2,200 RM48.40 RM26.90 RM2,150 27. When wages exceed RM2,200 but not RM2,300 RM50.60 RM28.10 RM2,250 28. When wages exceed RM2,300 but not RM2,400 RM52.90 RM29.40 RM2,350 29. When wages exceed RM2,400 but not RM2,500 RM55.10 RM30.60 RM2,450 30. When wages exceed RM2,500 but not RM2,600 RM57.40 RM31.90 RM2,550 31. When wages exceed RM2,600 but not RM2,700 RM59.60 RM33.10 RM2,650 32. When wages exceed RM2,700 but not RM2,800 RM61.90 RM34.40 RM2,750 33. When wages exceed RM2,800 but not RM2,900 RM64.10 RM35.60 RM2,850 34. When wages exceed RM2,900 but not RM3,000 RM66.40 RM36.90 RM2,950 35. When wages exceed RM3,000 but not RM3,100 RM68.60 RM38.10 RM3,050 36. When wages exceed RM3,100 but not RM3,200 RM70.90 RM39.40 RM3,150 37. When wages exceed RM3,200 but not RM3,300 RM73.10 RM40.60 RM3,250 38. When wages exceed RM3,300 but not RM3,400 RM75.40 RM41.90 RM3,350 39. When wages exceed RM3,400 but not RM3,500 RM77.60 RM43.10 RM3,450 

112 Laws of Malaysia ACT 4 Actual monthly wage of the month First Category Second Category Corresponding assumed monthly wage for the month 40. When wages exceed RM3,500 but not RM3,600 RM79.90 RM44.40 RM3,550 41. When wages exceed RM3,600 but not RM3,700 RM82.10 RM45.60 RM3,650 42. When wages exceed RM3,700 but not RM3,800 RM84.40 RM46.90 RM3,750 43. When wages exceed RM3,800 but not RM3,900 RM86.60 RM48.10 RM3,850 44. When wages exceed RM3,900 but not RM4,000 RM88.90 RM49.40 RM3,950 45. When wages exceed RM4,000 but not RM4,100 RM91.10 RM50.60 RM4,050 46. When wages exceed RM4,100 but not RM4,200 RM93.40 RM51.90 RM4,150 47. When wages exceed RM4,200 but not RM4,300 RM95.60 RM53.10 RM4,250 48. When wages exceed RM4,300 but not RM4,400 RM97.90 RM54.40 RM4,350 49. When wages exceed RM4,400 but not RM4,500 RM100.10 RM55.60 RM4,450 50. When wages exceed RM4,500 but not RM4,600 RM102.40 RM56.90 RM4,550 51. When wages exceed RM4,600 but not RM4,700 RM104.60 RM58.10 RM4,650 52. When wages exceed RM4,700 but not RM4,800 RM106.90 RM59.40 RM4,750 53. When wages exceed RM4,800 but not RM4,900 RM109.10 RM60.60 RM4,850 54. When wages exceed RM4,900 but not RM5,000 RM111.40 RM61.90 RM4,950 55. When wages exceed RM5,000 RM111.40 RM61.90 RM4,950 4A. Where no contribution of the First or Second Category shall be paid or payable in respect of the insured person during the continuous period of six months immediately preceding the month in which the employment injury occurred or where none of the contributions paid or payable during the continuous period of six months immediately preceding the month in which the employment injury occurred can be taken into consideration for the purpose of the calculation of the assumed average monthly wage in accordance with the proviso to paragraph 3, the daily rate of benefit admissible for temporary disablement shall be equal to eighty per cent and permanent total disablement shall be equal to ninety per cent of the average assumed monthly wage of a person employed on similar work by the same employer or an y employer in the same locality divided by thirty: 

Employees’ Social Security 113 Provided that for the purposes of this paragraph the average assumed monthly wage shall be equal to the sum of the assumed monthly wage of a person employed on similar work by the same employer or, if there is no such person, any other person employed on similar work by another employer in the same locality for which the contributions of the First or Second category have been paid or were payable during the continuous period of six months immediately preceding the month in which the relevant employment injury occurred, divided by the number of months for which such contributions were so paid or payable: Provided further that in the event such person has been in employment for less than 24 days in any mon th, the contribution paid or payable for that month in respect of him shall not be taken into consideration for the calculation of the assumed monthly wage. 5. Where no contribution of the First or Second category shall be paid or payable during the conti nuous period of six months immediately preceding the month in which the employment injury occurred or where none of the contributions paid or payable during the continuous period of six months immediately preceding the month in which the employment injury occurred can be taken into consideration for the purpose of the calculation of the assumed monthly wage in accordance with the proviso to paragraph 3, or where the daily rate of benefit calculated under paragraph 1 or paragraph 4A is less than the minimum rate prescribed by the Minister from time to time by regulations, then in any such case the daily rate of benefit admissible for temporary disablement or permanent total disablement shall be deemed to be the minimum rate prescribed by the Minister from time to time by regulations. 6. (Deleted by Act A1232). 7. Daily rate of permanent partial disablement benefit shall be such percentage of the daily rate of permanent total disablement as is specified in the Second Schedule as being the percentage of the lo ss of earning capacity caused by such permanent partial disablement: Provided that for permanent partial disablement not specified in the Second Schedule, the daily rate of benefit shall be such percentage of the rate of permanent total disablement benef it as is proportionate to the loss of earning capacity permanently caused by such permanent partial disablement: Provided further that where more injuries than one are caused by the same accident, the daily rate of benefit for those injuries shall be agg regated but not so in any case as to exceed the permanent total disablement benefit. 8. Daily rate of dependants’ benefit shall be as follows: (i) for the widow or widower, an amount equivalent to three -fifths of the daily rate of permanent total disablement benefit of the deceased insured 

114 Laws of Malaysia ACT 4 person if he had sustained such disablement from the employment injury which resulted in his death; (ii) for each child, two-fifths of the daily rate of permanent total disablement benefit mentioned in (i): Provided that if the total of the dependants’ benefit distributed among the widow or widower and child or children exceeds at any time the daily rate of permanent total disablement benefit, the share of each dependant shall be proportionately reduced so that the total amoun t payable does not exceed the daily rate of permanent total disablement benefit: Provided further that if there is no widow or widower or if the widow or widower dies, the daily rate of benefit for each child shall be three -fifths of the daily rate of permanent total disablement benefit mentioned in (i), and if there be more than one child, the amount payable shall be equally divided between them. 9. In case the deceased insured person does not leave a widow or widower or child, dependants’ benefit shall be payable to the other dependants’ as follows: (a) to a parent or grandparent, for life, at an amount equal to four tenths of the daily rate of permanent total disablement benefit which would have been admissible to the deceased insured person if he had sust ained permanent total disablement from the employment injury, and if there are two or more parents or grandparents, the amount payable to the parents or grandparents as aforesaid shall be equally divided between them; (b) to any other dependant until marriage or until he attains twenty-one years of age, whichever is the earlier, or if widowed until re -marriage or until he attains twenty-one years of age, whichever is the earlier, at an amount equivalent to three -tenths of the full rate, and if there be more th an one dependant under this subparagraph, the amount payable shall be equally divided among them. 10. (Deleted by Act A1232). 

Employees’ Social Security 115 FIFTH SCHEDULE [Section 28] OCCUPATIONAL DISEASES PART I AGENT DISEASE OCCUPATION/INDUSTRY Chemicals- Metals and its compounds Occupations involving the use or handling of (manufacture, transport, storage, disposal) and exposure to the metal and its toxic fumes, dust or vapour or its compound exceeding Permissible Exposure Limits 1. Aluminium Respiratory irritant , chronic bronchitis, pulmonary fibrosis, dermatitis Exposure during welding of aluminium metal; use as phosphor binders, manufacture of cans, containers and wrappings, pigments, paints, catalysts, alloys, engine and aircraft components, electric wires and cables, window frames, antiperspirants and in aluminium reduction plants 2. Antimony Dermatitis, pneumoconiosis, haemolysis, anuria, nasal septum perforation, myocardial injury, lung cancer (Antimony trioxide) Exposure during use as a flame retardant for plastics, paint, textiles, paper, rubber and adhesives, alloys in production of battery grids, type casting, cable sheath and manufacture of semiconductor devices 3. Arsenic Encephalopathy, peripheral neuritis, polyneuropathy, acquired haemolytic anaemia, glomerular and tubular damage, nasal septum perforation, skin hyperkeratosis, lung fibrosis, dystrophy of corneral surface, hepatic angiosarcoma cancer of skin and lung Exposure during mining, alloy production, copper smelting, production and use of ars enic pesticide, herbicides, insecticides; use in the microelectronic industry; and used as pigment and refining agents in glass manufacture, preservative in tanning wood and cable sheaths 4. Barium Benign pneumoconiosis (baritosis), local irritation Exposure during the manufacture of aluminium alloys, ceramic (as flux), welding rod fluxes, flares and fireworks, lubricating oil detergent, rubber, paint, paper, linoleum and plastics (as filler) hair removers, pesticide; during barite ore refining 5. Beryllium Chronic berylliu m disease, tracheobronchitis, pneumonitis dermatitis (ulceration or granuloma), berylliosis, lung cancer Exposure during production of hard, corrosion-resistant alloys in aerospace industry, nuclear reactors; ceramic and refractory products, electrical contacts, switches, welding electrodes, cathode ray tubes, metallic alloys and lithography for the electronics industry 

116 Laws of Malaysia ACT 4 AGENT DISEASE OCCUPATION/INDUSTRY Chemicals- Metals and its compounds Occupations involving the use or handling of (manufacture, transport, storage, disposal) and exposure to the metal and its toxic fumes, dust or vapour or its compound exceeding Permissible Exposure Limits 6. Boron Respiratory and skin irritation, Central nervous system depression, mental behavior disorders, renal damage Exposure during degassing and deoxidising of metals; steel hardening process; metallurgic processes (as fluxes and shielding slag); use in atomic reactors as neutron absorber; glass fibers production and in bleaching products 7. Cadmium Osteomalacia, pneum onitis, emphysema, tubular and glomerular damage with renal failure, anosmia, lung cancer Exposure during electroplating; manufacture of nickel -cadmium batteries, high speed bearings, soldering, welding and silver brazing (as fillers); use in plastics industry (stabiliser); use as pigments (in rubber, ink, plastics, paint, textiles) and jewellery manufacture 8. Chromium Nasal and skin ulcer, nasal septum perforation, tubular necrosis, allergic and irritant dermatitis, asthma Exposure during electroplat ing, dye or pigment manufacture and welding 9. Cobalt Allergic contact dermatitis, hard metal lung disease, cardiomyopathy Exposure during manufacture of high temperature alloys for jet engines 10. Copper Haemolysis, pulmonary fibrosis, metal fume fever Exposure during electroplating, manufacture of rayon, pigments and copper based fungicide 11. Lead (a) Inorganic Anaemia,polyneuropathy, toxic encephalopathy, neurobehavioural disturbances, haemolysis and acute renal failure Exposure during lead an d zine mining or extraction, use in plumbing, ammunition, ceramics, crystal, lead storage batteries manufacture; welding or cutting spray printing and pottery (b) Organic Alkyl lead compounds Hallucinations, agitation, mental confusion, coma Exposure durin g fuel production, transportations of antiknock agents, blending antiknock fluid and raw gasoline at refineries of antiknock agents; cleaning of tanks containing leaded gasoline or aviation fuel 

Employees’ Social Security 117 AGENT DISEASE OCCUPATION/INDUSTRY Chemicals- Metals and its compounds Occupations involving the use or handling of (manufacture, transport, storage, disposal) and exposure to the metal and its toxic fumes, dust or vapour or its compound exceeding Permissible Exposure Limits 12. Manganese Chemical pneumonitis, secondary parkinsonism, encephalopathy, renal injury, metal fume fever Exposure during mining and processing, grinding, smelting, metallurgy, welding and pottery glazing; manufacture of dry batteries and fungicides; use as oxidizing agent in the chemical industry and in produc tion of steel and alloys 13. Mercury (a) Organic methyl mercury Central nervous system toxicity characterised by combined cerebellar and cortical degeneration Exposure during use in the manufacture of antiseptics, germicides, diuretics, contraceptives, pesticides (algicides, fungicides), paints and waxes and in the chemical industry (catalyst and alkylating agents) (b) Inorganic mercury Central nervous system toxicity characterised by tremor and neuropsychiatric disease Exposure during electrolytic production of sodium hydroxide and chlorine, battery production, fungicide manufacture, metallurgy and manufacture of mercury containing equipment 14. Nickel Allergic contact dermatitis, asthma, interstitial pneumonitis, nasal and lung cancer (Nickel bisulphide) Exposure during concentrating, smelting or refining in the nickel producing industry, stainless steel production, manufacture of batteries, metallurgy, alloys, electroplating; use as catalysts and pigments; sulphide nickel ore miners and high nick el alloy manufacture workers 15. Nickel carbonyl Interstitial pneumonitis, pulmonary and cerebral oedema, cerebral haemorrage Exposure to nickel carbonyl gas during refining of nickel 16. Phosphorus Necrosis of jaw, dermal burns, respiratory irritat ion, hepatic and renal toxicity Exposure during use as fertilizer; use in beverage and dentifrices production (phosphoric acid salts); pesticides/ rodenticide, flame retardants, gasoline and lube oils production (inorganic phosphorus compounds); explosive s, ammunitions and match production (red phosphorus) 

118 Laws of Malaysia ACT 4 AGENT DISEASE OCCUPATION/INDUSTRY Chemicals- Metals and its compounds Occupations involving the use or handling of (manufacture, transport, storage, disposal) and exposure to the metal and its toxic fumes, dust or vapour or its compound exceeding Permissible Exposure Limits 17. Platinum Asthma, allergic contact dermatitis, allergic rhinitis Exposure during use in electroplating, platinum refinery operations and manufacture of fluorescent screen 18. Selenium Pulmonary oedema, skin irritant allergic dermatitis and skin burns Exposure to elemental selenium in electronics, glass, ceramic, plastic and rubber industries 19. Thallium Sensori-motor polyneuropathy Exposure during use as rodenticide, manufacture of electr onic components and optical lens 20. Tin (a) Inorganic Respiratory irritation, benign pneu- moconiosis (stannosis) seizures, skin irritation and fits Exposure during use in electroplating, canning, soldering, tin alloy processes (b) Organic organotin (trimethyl, triethyltin) Irritation of eyes, mild to severe skin and mucous membrane irritation, cerebral oedema, hepatic necrosis and fits Exposure during use as stabilizer in plastics and oil, as catalysts in curing rubber; as preservatives in textile and leather and as biocides in marine plants 21. Uranium Kidney disease, lung cancer, radiation sickness Exposure during mining and use of uranium 22. Vanadium Respiratory irritation, asthma, allergic dermatitis Exposure during use in production of fer rovanadium, vanadium alloys, use as catalyst and coating 23. Zinc Pulmonary irritation and oedema Exposure during use in galvanizing steel and other metals, die cast for use in automotive parts and electrical equipment 

Employees’ Social Security 119 PART II AGENT DISEASE OCCUPATION/INDUSTRY Acid and Alkali Occupations involving the use or handling of (manufacture, transport, storage, disposal) and exposure to the acid and alkali and its toxic vapour or its compound exceeding Permissible Exposure Limits 1. Acetic acid Respiratory irritation, bronchitis, pharyngitis Exposure during use in photographic development; manufacture of glycine, drugs, dyes and herbicides 2. Acrylic acid Irritation of the eyes, skin and respiratory system; eye and skin burns; skin sensitization Exposure during use in resin, plasticiser and drug production 3. Chromic acid (chromates or dichromates) Nasal and skin ulceration, perforation of the nasal septum Exposure during use in chromium plating, process engraving, cement manufacture, ano dizing, metal cleaning, tanning, manufacture of ceramic glazes and paints 4. Formic acid Irritation of the eyes, skin, throat; skin burns, dermatitis Exposure during use in textile industry, leather industry, nickel plating and as a coagulant for rubber latex 5. Fumaric acid Mild skin and mucous membrane irritation Exposure during use in manufacture of synthetic resins, dyes, surface coatings, inks and plasticisers 6. Glycolic acid Skin and eye burns Exposure during use in leather, textile, adh esive and plastic industries 7. Hydrochloric acid Irritation eyes and skin Exposure during use in steel pickling, chemical manufacturing and thermal degradation of polyvinyl chloride 8. Hydrofluoric acid Osteosclerosis, skin burns Exposure during u se as an intermediate in the production of fluorocarbons; use in metal cleaning, glass etching and polishing applications 9. Nitric acid - Nitrous fumes Bronchiolitis fibrosa obliterans Exposure during production of ammonium potassium nitrate, explosives, adipic acid, isocyanides and fertilizers 10. Phosphoric acid Irritant dermatitis, respiratory irritation, pulmonary oedema Exposure during production of fertilizers, detergents and cleansers 

120 Laws of Malaysia ACT 4 AGENT DISEASE OCCUPATION/INDUSTRY Acid and Alkali Occupations involving the use or handling of (manufacture, transport, storage, disposal) and exposure to the acid and alkali and its toxic vapour or its compound exceeding Permissible Exposure Limits 11. Sulphuric acid Laryngeal and lung cancer Exposure during manufacture of fertilizers, nitrobenzene; electroplating and petroleum refining PART III AGENT Gases DISEASE OCCUPATION/INDUSTRY Occupations involving the use or handling of (manufacturing, transport, storage, disposal), and exposure to gases exceeding Permissible Exposure Limits 1. Ammonia Reactive airway dysfunction syndrome, bronchiolitis obliterans, chronic respiratory insufficiency Exposure during use in refrigeration work, plastic manufacture, petroleum refining and jewellery electroplating 2. Carbon dioxide Simple asphyxiant, coma, anoxic brain injury, cardiac arrest Exposure during blasting, use in manufacture of mineral water, fermentation in breweries and the formation of lime in lime kilns 3. Carbon monoxide Asphyxiant, a noxic brain injury, cardiac ischemia Exposure during use of non -electric fork lift used indoors, dynamite, gunpowder for blasting in subterranean galleries, use in illuminating gas, fire fighting, garage works, power of producer gas, blast furnaces, stove s for the burning of charcoal coke and other fuel, gas engines 4. Diethylene dioxide (dioxane) Acute renal failure, liver necrosis Exposure during use in paint diluents, cleaning agents and in the semiconductor industry 5. Ethylene oxide Respiratory tract irritation, cancer, polyneuropathy, cataract Exposure during use in manufacture of ethylene glycol, glycol ethers and medical products; use as a pesticide fumigant, sterilant in hospitals 6. Formaldehyde Contact dermatitis, bronchitis, asthma, nasopharynx and lung cancer Exposure during use in mortuary, tissue preservative, laboratory workers 

Employees’ Social Security 121 AGENT Gases DISEASE OCCUPATION/INDUSTRY Occupations involving the use or handling of (manufacturing, transport, storage, disposal), and exposure to gases exceeding Permissible Exposure Limits 7. Halogens Chemical asphyxiants Exposure during use for water sterilization 8. Hydrogen cyanide Anoxic brain injury, skin corrosion, optic atropy Exposure during use in fogging, metal plating operations, extraction of silver and gold salts from ores 9. Hydrogen fluoride Skin burns, fluorosis, reactive air ways dysfunction syndrome, bronchiolitis obliterans, chronic respiratory insufficiency Exposure during use in plastic industry and microelectronics 10. Hydrogen sulphide Respiratory and mucous membrane irritation, anoxic brain injury Exposure during use in geothermal and fossil fuel energy extraction; use as agricultural disinfectant by farmers, sewage and manure pit workers 11. Nitric oxides, Nitrogen dioxide Simple asphyxiant, aggravates asthma Exposure during welding; used in paper industry 12. Ozone Aggravates asthma Exposure during welding and photocopying process 13. Phosgene Reactive airway dysfunction syndrome, pulmonary oedema, bronchiolitis Exposure during use in manufacture of isocyanate, pesticide, dyes, and pharmaceuticals; exposure during arc welding PART IV AGENT Solvents DISEASE OCCUPATION/INDUSTRY Occupations involving the use or handling of (manufacturing, transport, storage, disposal), and exposure to solvents exceeding Permissible Exposure Limits 1. Carbon bisulphide Encephalopathy, psychosis, central scotoma, neurobehavioral abnormalities, parkinsonism, peripheral neuritis, respiratory irritation and renal disease Exposure during manufacture of rayon, insecticides, herbicides, lacquer and varnish and in laboratory work 

122 Laws of Malaysia ACT 4 AGENT Solvents DISEASE OCCUPATION/INDUSTRY Occupations involving the use or handling of (manufacturing, transport, storage, disposal), and exposure to solvents exceeding Permissible Exposure Limits 2. n-hexane Central nervous system, depression, neurobehavioural dysfunction, po lyneuropathy, dermatitis Exposure during use as solvent in glues, rubber cements, varnishes, inks, and extraction process in laboratories 3. Acrylamide monomer Axonal neuropathy with numbness. Central nervous system effects-ataxia, tremor, dysarthria, blistering of skin Exposure to acrylamide monomer during its manufacture, in the polymer production, in surface coating industries; use in chemical processing, water treatment and mineral separation 4. Cyclohexane, kerosene Defatting dermatitis, centra l nervous system depression) depression, disequilibrium, dermatitis, neurobehavioural dysfunction Exposure during use as industrial solvent and in the synthesis of nylon 5. Aromatic hydrocarbons (a) Benzene and its homologues Acute non -lymphatic leukaemia, aplastic anaemia, agranulocytosis, methaemoglobinaemia Exposure during paint removal and degreasing; use as a solvent in petroleum industry; coke ovens; in the production of dry cleaning agents (b) Its toxic amino- or chloro-or nitro derivatives Dermatitis, toxic encephalopathy, neurobehavioral dysfunction, peripheral neuropathy Exposure during use in manufacture of explosives and dye industries (c) Styrene Dermatitis, toxic encephalopathy, neurobehavioral dysfunction, peripheral neuropathy Use in the manufacture of synthetic rubber, as monomer or copolymer for polystyrene acryonitrile-butadiene- sytrene (ABS) resins (d) Toluene Dermatitis, toxic encephalopathy, neurobehavioral dysfunction, peripheral neuropathy Use as solvent in chemic al industry and laboratories (e) Xylene Dermatitis, toxic encephalopathy, neurobehavioral dysfunction, peripheral neuropathy Use as substrate for organic synthesis 6. Methyl alcohol Optic neuropathy (Methyl alcohol) and central nervous system depression Exposure during use as industrial intermediate, solvent, ingredient of antifreeze and fuel 7. Carbon tetrachloride Liver and kidney toxic Exposure during production of chloroflurocarbon, chlorinated 

Employees’ Social Security 123 AGENT Solvents DISEASE OCCUPATION/INDUSTRY Occupations involving the use or handling of (manufacturing, transport, storage, disposal), and exposure to solvents exceeding Permissible Exposure Limits rubber, pharmaceuticals, pesticides and antiknock agents 8. 2 methoxyethanol Encephalopathy, anaemia, defatting dermatitis Exposure during use as solvent; manufacture of anti -freezing and polyesters 9. Ketones (a) Methyl n -butyl Ketone (MnBK) Encephalopathy, sensori - motor polyneuropathy, mental and behaviour disorders, optic neuropathy Exposure during use as industrial solvent and varnish remover (b) Methyl iso-butyl Ketone (MiBK) Peripheral neuropathy Exposure during use as a solvent in paint and as extraction solvent in pharmaceutical industry (c) Methyl ethyl Ketone (MEK) Peripheral neuropathy in conjuction with n -hexane or Methyl n-butyl ketone Exposure during use as solvent; in vegetable-oil extraction and separation in petrochemical industry 10. Methylene Chloride Liver t oxin, increases carboxyhaemoglobin Exposure during use in manufacture of toys and plastic products 11. Methyl chloride (chloromethane) Toxic to brain, liver, kidneys and lungs, fits, ataxia and diplopia Exposure during production of methyl silicon pol ymers and resins, use as a methylating agent in the productions of butyl rubber 12. Tetrachlorethane Powerful narcotic, central nervous system and liver toxicity, skin irritant Exposure during use in aircraft manufacturing: use as a solvent; preparation of aero plane fabric; manufacture of artificial pearl and leather 13. Trichloromethane (chloroform) Liver toxin, anesthetic Exposure during use in laboratory work and industrial solvent 14. Trichloroethylene Narcotic effect, euphoria, dizziness, confusion, drowsiness, loss of consciousness, chemical pneumonitis, kidney and liver damage, dermatitis Exposure during use in degreasing, lens cleaning; as solvent for extraction and chemical intermediate 15. 1, 1, 2 Trichloroethane Depression of centr al nervous system, toxic encephalopathy Exposure during use as chemical intermediate and solvent 16. Aldehyde based solvents 

124 Laws of Malaysia ACT 4 AGENT Solvents DISEASE OCCUPATION/INDUSTRY Occupations involving the use or handling of (manufacturing, transport, storage, disposal), and exposure to solvents exceeding Permissible Exposure Limits (a) Formaldehyde Eye irritation, contact dermatitis, bronchitis, asthma, nasopharyngeal cancer and lung cancer Exposure during use in production of formaldehyde and its polyacetal and phenolic resin, plastics, plywood glue; manufacture of urea; as intermediate in chemical synthesis, moulding compounds, foundry resins; preservation and disinfection; adhesives for insulation; slow release fertilizers and formaldehyde based textile finishes (b) Glutaraldehyde Skin eye and lung irritant, occupational asthma, allergic dermatitis Exposure during use as biological fixative in laboratories, tanning and chemical synthesis 17. Bis (Chloromethyl) ether (BCME) Respiratory irritation, lung cancer (mainly oat cell type) Exposure during use in preparation of ion exchange resins PART V AGENT Pesticides DISEASE OCCUPATION/INDUSTRY Occupations involving the use or handling of (m anufacturing, transport, storage, disposal), and exposure to pesticides, vapour, dust or its compound exceeding the Permissible Exposure Limits 1. Dipyridyls (Diquat, Paraquat) Acute respiratory distress syndrome, pulmonary fibrosis, corneal injury, cen tral nervous system disturbance, renal and hepatotoxicity Exposure during use as herbicides by farmers, pesticide manufactures, pesticide sprayers and agricultural researchers 2. Carbamates (dimethyldithio carbamate) Irritant dermatitis, delayed polyneuropathy, bronchospasm, pancreatitis Exposure during use as insecticides by farmers, pesticide manufactures, pesticide sprayers and agricultural researchers 3. Chlorophenoxy compounds (2-4 Dichloro phenoxy acetic acid) Hypotension, respiratory failure, muscle weakness and spasm, rhabdomyolysis Exposure during use as herbicide by farmers, pesticide manufactures, pesticide sprayers and agricultural researchers 4. Fungicides Dithiocarbamates and thiocarbamates (ethylene-bis- Irritant and allergic dermatitis, thyroid adenocarcinoma Exposure during use as fungicide by farmers, pesticide manufactures, pesticide sprayers and agricultural researchers 

Employees’ Social Security 125 AGENT Pesticides DISEASE OCCUPATION/INDUSTRY Occupations involving the use or handling of (m anufacturing, transport, storage, disposal), and exposure to pesticides, vapour, dust or its compound exceeding the Permissible Exposure Limits dithiocarbamate, Dimethyldithiocarbamat e) 5. Glyphosate Hypotension, dysarrhythmia, pulmonary oedema, aspira tion pneumonitis, mucous membrane irritation, contact dermatitis, liver toxicity Exposure during use as herbicide by farmers, pesticide manufactures, pesticide sprayers and agricultural researchers 6. Organochlorine (Aldrin, chlordane, endosulfan, endrin, lindane) Central nervous system excitation, fits, aplastic anaemia Exposure during use as insecticide by farmers, pesticide manufactures, pesticide sprayers and agricultural researchers 7. Methyl bromide (Bromomethane) Encephalopathy, respiratory distress, fits, peripheral neuropathy, liver toxic Exposure during use as fumigation agent 9. Nitophenol Kidney and liver damage, methemoglobinemia, Central nervous stimulant Exposure during use as herbicide, insecticide, fungicide by farmers, pesticide manufactures, pesticide sprayers and agricultural researchers 10. Organophosphate phosphorus or it’s inorganic compound Irritant dermatitis, persistent central nervous system toxicity, delayed polyneuropathy, bronchospasm, pancreatitis Exposure during use as insecticide by farmers, pesticide manufactures, sprayers and agricultural researchers 11. Synthetic pyrethroids (Permethrin, deltamethrin) Asthma, allergic and irritant contact dermatitis, allergic rhinitis, thrombocytopaenia Exposure during use as insecticide by farmers, pesticide manufactures, sprayers and agricultural researchers 12. Pentachlorophenol Skin and respiratory tract irritation, systemic collapse, chloracne, bronchitis, bone marrow aplasia, visual loss Exposure during use as ins ecticide and wood preservative 13. Rodenticides (a) Warfarin Bleeding from mucous membrane and gastrointestinal tract Exposure during use as rodenticides by farmers, manufacturers and agricultural researchers (b) Zinc phosphide Severe pulmonary i rritation, fits, renal and liver toxicity Exposure during use as fumigant gas, rodenticide baits 

126 Laws of Malaysia ACT 4 PART VI AGENT Physical agents DISEASE OCCUPATION/INDUSTRY Occupations involving the exposure to these physical agents and exceeding the Permissible Exp osure Limits 1. Noise Acoustic trauma Exposure to occupational noise of very high sound 140 dB pressure level for a short time Noise Induced hearing loss Exposure to occupational noise of high sound pressure level in excess of 85 decibels over 8 -hour period for many years 2. Vibration Hand Arm Vibration Syndrome (HAVS) Exposure to prolonged excessive local vibration to hand of range 125 - 300 Hz. Whole body vibration Exposure to repeated motions, vibrations from pneumatic tools, power drills , riveting machines or hammers-lumberjacks, chain sawyers, chippers, rock drillers, stone cutters, jackhammer operators and riveters 3. Pressure Dysbarism, decompression sickness, barotraumas, osteonecrosis, cerebral arterial gas embolism, bends Exposure to compressed air, underwater or rarefied air, other respirable gases or gaseous mixtures such as in under water or tunnel workers 4. Radiation (a) Ionising radiation (i) Acute exposure to large doses of X-rays , gamma rays, alpha rays and beta rays Acute radiation syndrome, transient erythema, desquamation, radionecrotic lesions, Cataract, chronic radiodermatitis, polyneuropathy, cutaneous spinocellular epithelioma, lymphoid myeloid leukaemia, osteosarcoma, aplastic anaemia, cancer of lung, thyroid, testis, female breast and skin Acute exposure to X -rays, nuclear reactors, ionising particle, radium, other radio -active substance or radiant energy Chronic exposure to X -rays, nuclear reactors, ionising particle, radium, other radio -active substance or radiant energy (ii) Chronic exposure to X- rays, gamma rays, alpha rays and beta rays with a 

Employees’ Social Security 127 AGENT Physical agents DISEASE OCCUPATION/INDUSTRY Occupations involving the exposure to these physical agents and exceeding the Permissible Exp osure Limits long latent period (b) Non-ionising radiation (i) Ultraviolet radiation Acute effect: radiation cataract keratoconjunctivitis, photoretinitis, skin erythema Chronic effect: Actinic cataract, skin cancer Frequent or prolonged exposure to ultraviolet, the glare or rays from molten glass, molten or red-hot metal, white-hot material during electro - welding or acetylene welding (ii) Infrared radiation Acute ef fect: Blepharitis, keratitis, heat -related retinal disorder-scotoma pigmentary lesions of fundus Chronic effect: Glass Workers’ Cataract Acute or prolonged exposure to infra- red radiation among blacksmiths, glass blowers, furnace men, baker, foundry workers, industrial lasers 5. Heat Heat cramps, heat exhaustion, heat syncope, heat stroke and cataract Exposure to extreme heat, strenuous exercise and impaired heat dissipation, high humidity during outdoor work, high temperature processes, welders, ceram ic workers and bakery workers 6. Extreme low temperatures Chilblain, frostbite, immersion foot, systemic hypothermia Exposure to extreme cold where the core body temperature falls below 360 Celsius in cold room or frozen food industry 7. Lack of oxygen Hypoxia, asphyxiation Exposure to working environment with insufficient oxygen, confined spaces, manholes, maintenance silos and in high altitudes researchers, mountain climbers 8. Poor lighting Miner’s nystagmus and other irregular eye movements Exposure to poor lighting in mines 

128 Laws of Malaysia ACT 4 PART VII AGENT Biological agent DISEASE OCCUPATION/INDUSTRY Occupations involving exposure to biological agent and where there is an infection A. Viral 1. Arbovirus St.Louis/Equine encephalomyelitis Exposure among laboratory workers 2. Highly Pathogenic Avian Influenza Virus (HPAI) Avian Influenza Exposure to birds infected with HPAI 3. Human Immunodeficiency Virus Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome (AIDS) Exposure to blood and blood products infected with HIV among health care workers, laboratory disposal and service workers 4. Flavivirus Japanese Encephalitis Exposure to animals infected with Flavivirus 5. Hepatitis A virus Hepatitis A infection Exposure to Hepatitis A virus among sewage workers 6. Hepatitis B virus Hepatitis B infection acute liver failure, chronic hepatitis, cirrhosis, hepatoma Exposure to human blood or human blood products contaminated with Hepatitis B virus or a source of Hepatitis B virus among health care and la boratory workers, hospital waste disposal workers, ambulance personnel, prison and police staff 7. Hepatitis C virus Hepatitis C infection chronic hepatitis, cirrhosis, hepatoma Exposure to human blood or human blood products contaminated with Hepatitis C virus, or a source of Hepatitis C virus among health care and laboratory workers, hospital waste disposal workers, ambulance personnel, prison and police staff 8. Hepatitis E virus Hepatitis E infection Exposure to human blood or human blood produ cts contaminated with Hepatitis E virus, or a source of Hepatitis E virus among health care and laboratory workers, hospital waste disposal workers, ambulance personnel, prison and police staff 9. Nipah virus (Paramyxoviridae) Nipah virus infection Exposure to animals infected with Nipah virus and its meat among pig farmers and health care workers 10. Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS) virus (Corona virus) SARS virus infection Exposure to people infected with SARS virus among health care workers 

Employees’ Social Security 129 AGENT Biological agent DISEASE OCCUPATION/INDUSTRY Occupations involving exposure to biological agent and where there is an infection 11. Rabies Virus Rabies, central nervous system manifestations, delirium, fits, respiratory failure Exposure to Rabies virus through bites of rabid animals or domestic animals infected with rabies virus among farming and animal husbandry work, veter inary, animals laboratory and animal control personnel 12. Rubella virus Rubella Exposure to patients with rubella infection among health care staff and kindergarten caretakers B. Bacteria 1. Bacillus anthracis from animals products Anthrax infection cutaneous vesicular lesion, pulmonaryhemorrhage, pneumonia Exposure to animals infected with Bacillus anthracis and its spores, bristle, hides, hoofs, wool, horn or skins or other animal products or handling of carcasses and residues among farming, animal, abattoir, veterinary, laboratory work, doctors, nurses, ambulance crews and pathology technicians 2. Borrelia burgdorferi from bite of infected tick Lyme disease Exposure to bite from a tick infected with Borrelia burgdorferi among work invol ving out door work involving farming and forestry 3. Brucella abortus, B.suis, B. mellitensis from livestock Brucellosis Exposure to animals infected with Brucella or their products among farming, forestry and animal husbandry work, carcasses or parts thereof or their untreated products, abattoir, veterinary, laboratory work; handling laboratory specimens or vaccines containing Brucella 4. Clostridium tetani from soil, sewage or animals through an unclean deep wound Tetanus Fits Exposure to contaminated soil during farming, military work and sewage work 5. Erysipelothrix husiopathiae from infected animals Erysipeloid Cutaneous Erysipeloid Sepsis with endocarditis Exposure to the agent through farming and animal husbandry work, veterinary work, abattoir work, meat processing work other work, involving contact with pig, cattle, poultry or fish including the handling of its carcasses 6. Francisella tularensis from a variety of animals, particularly Tularemia Exposure to Francisella tularensis during farming, animal husbandry work, forestry, laboratory work 

130 Laws of Malaysia ACT 4 AGENT Biological agent DISEASE OCCUPATION/INDUSTRY Occupations involving exposure to biological agent and where there is an infection hares, rabbits, squirrels, rats, mice and other rodents involving handling of infected rabbits, hares, ground squirrels, mice or other small furry rodents 7. Leptospira ictohaemorrhagica/ interrogans from animals (especially rat) animal urine or contaminated soil Leptospirosis/Weil disease (swamp fever, swine disease) Liver and kidney failure, pneumonia Exposure to the agent through farming and animal husbandry work, veterinary work, abattoir work, dairy work, meat processing work, work with contact with contaminated soil, fresh water fisherman and fish handler, sewage work and garbage collector involving exposure to infected rats 8. Mycobacterium bovis from infected animals Bovine tuberculosis Exposure to Mycobacterium bovis transmitted through contact with infected animals or their products, abattoir work and animal husbandry 9. Mycobacterium tuberculosis, Mycobacterium leprae from infected human Tuberculosis/Leprosy Exposure through close contact with a source or sources of the agent by reason of employment (a) in the medical treatment or nursing of a person or persons suffering from tuberculosis/leprosy or in a service ancillary to such treatment or nursing; (b) in attendance upon a person or persons suffering from tuberculosis or leprosy where the need for such attendance arises by reason of physical or mental infirmity; (c) as a research worker engaged in research in connection with tuberculosis/leprosy; or (d) as a labora tory worker, pathologists or post -mortem worker, where occupation involves working with material which is a source of tuberculosis infection or in any occupation ancillary to such employment 10. Mycobacterium marinum Fish tank granuloma Exposure to th e agent among fish tank cleanser 

Employees’ Social Security 131 AGENT Biological agent DISEASE OCCUPATION/INDUSTRY Occupations involving exposure to biological agent and where there is an infection 11. Pseudomonas mallei Glanders pneumonia, septicaemia, local abscesses Exposure through contact rabid dogs, or equine animals or carcasses among farm and slaughterhouse workers 12. Pseudomonas pseudomallei Melioidosis Exposure to rodents infected with Pseudomonas pseudomallei C. Rickettsiae and Chlamydiae 1. Chlamydia psittaci from birds Avian chlamydiosis psittacosis (ornithosis) encephalitis, myocarditis, thrombophlebitis Exposure to birds, poultry or the ir excreta infected with Chlamydia psittaci or the remains or untreated products of such birds such as duck farm workers, feather processing workers, abattoir workers, poultry meat inspectors and pet shop workers Ovine chlamydiosis Exposure through contact with sheep infected with Chlamydia psittaci or the remains or untreated products of such sheep among sheep farm workers, veterinary surgeons 2. Chlamydia pneumoniae from humans Chlamydial pneumonia Exposure to humans infected with Chlamydia pneu moniae among healthcare workers 3. Coxiella burnetii from domestic animals (cattle, sheep, goats) or more raelythrough tick bites Q fever pneumonitis, myocarditis, Exposure through contact with infected animals, sheep, their remains or their untreated products among cattle farm workers involved the rearing of sheep, abattoir work, veterinary work, laboratory work 4. Rickettsia rickettsii and other Rickettsia species Spotted fever (tickborne typhus fever/ tickborne rickettsioses) Exposure to Rickett sia rickettsii and other Rickettsia species among laboratory work and outdoor work 5. Rickettsia prowazeki Typhus Eschar Exposure to any Rickettsia prowazekii among army personnel and farmers 6. Yersinia pestis Plague Septicaemia, endotoxic shock, disseminated intravascular coagulapathy–(DIVC) Exposure to the agent through infected rats in animal husbandry, farming D. Protozoa 1. Toxoplasma gondii from cat (or birds, sheep, goats, swine, cattle, etc) Toxoplasmosis cerebral abscess, pneumonia, myocarditis Exposure to agents during agricultural work, veterinary work, abattoir work and pet shop work 

132 Laws of Malaysia ACT 4 AGENT Biological agent DISEASE OCCUPATION/INDUSTRY Occupations involving exposure to biological agent and where there is an infection 2. Hookworm Ancyostoma braziliense Cutaneous larva migrans mobile, serpiginous plaque especially of feet Exposure to the agent among workers in tropical beaches E. Fungi 1. Sporothricosis nocardia Deep mycoses skin nodules Worker involving exposure to the agent PART VIII DISEASES BY TARGET ORGANS DISEASE AGENT OCCUPATION/INDUSTRY Occupations involving the use or handling of (manufacturing, storage, disposal) and exposure to the agents exceeding Permissible Exposure Limits A. Lung disease 1. Asthma (a) Isocyanates-toluene diisocyanate (b) Platinum salts (c) Fumes or dusts arising from the manufacture, transport or use of hardening a gents (epoxyresin curing agent based on phthalic anhydride, tetrachlorophthalic anhydride, trimelitic anhydride, or triethylenetetramine (d) Fumes arising from the use of rosin as a soldering flux (e) Proteolytic enzymes Work with exposure to asthmagens in chemical work, spray painting, polyurethane foam manufacture, use of polyurethane based adhesives, baking and farming, laboratory work, farming, woodwork, carpenters, textile dyers, hair dressers, health care work and glove producers 

Employees’ Social Security 133 DISEASE AGENT OCCUPATION/INDUSTRY Occupations involving the use or handling of (manufacturing, storage, disposal) and exposure to the agents exceeding Permissible Exposure Limits (f) Mineral dusts such as cement, copper (g) Flour and grain dusts (h) Animal including insects and other arthropods epithelia and excretions animal dusts such as bone or hair (i) Wood dust (j) Plant dusts of plant origin such as cotton, wood, flax, jute, padi husks, cork, spices, hemp, sisal, tobacco, tea, bar ley oats, rye (k) Reactive dyes (l) Persulphate salt (m) Products made with natural latex (natural rubber) (n) Glutaraldehyde 2. Allergic rhinitis (a) Isocyanates (b) Platinum salts (c) Fumes or dusts arisingfrom the manufacture, transport or use of hardening ag ents (epoxy resin curing agent based on phthalic anhydride, tetrachlorophthalic anhydride, trimelitic anhydride, or triethylenetrtramine) (d) Fumes arising from the use of rosin as a soldering flux (e) Proteolytic enzymes (f) Mineral dusts such as cement, copper Work with exposure to any of the agents in metal plating industry, food processing, laboratory workers, grain processing, drug manufacture, washing powder manufacture, hair dressing, electronics industry, welders, dye tea and coffee processing 

134 Laws of Malaysia ACT 4 DISEASE AGENT OCCUPATION/INDUSTRY Occupations involving the use or handling of (manufacturing, storage, disposal) and exposure to the agents exceeding Permissible Exposure Limits (g) Flour and grain dusts (h) Animal including insects and other arthropods epithelia and excretions animal dusts such as bone or hair (i) Reactive dyes Persulphates (j) Products made with natural latex (natural rubber) (k) Glutaraldehyde 3. Asbestos related diseases Asbestosis (diffuse inte rstitial pulmonary fibrosis), benign asbestos pleural disease, malignant asbestos related disease mesothelioma, Pleural plaques, pleural effusion Asbestos or any admixture of asbestos Handling of asbestos or any admixture of asbestos, (asbestos mines and quarries, asbestos products manufacture industry), insulation work, shipyard work, work involving removal of asbestos containing materials or tiles or other or substantial exposure to the dust arising from any of the foregoing operations the manufacture or repair of asbestos textiles or other articles containing or composed of asbestos; mining, processing, manufacturing, or handling, demolition work, transportation, disposal, exposure to materials containing asbestos 4. Acute pulmonary injury (laryngeal oedema, airflow obstruction), acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) Chlorine, ammonia, sulphur dioxide, and acid aerosols Handling and physical exposure to materials which can cause ARDS 5. Chronic bronchitis Coal, oil mist, synthetic vitreous fibe rs, Portland cement, welding fumes, cotton, grain, wood, tobacco smoke, fire smoke, engine exhaust Exposure to the agents causing chronic bronchitis, exposure to coal dust by reason of working underground in a coal mine for a period or periods amounting i n the aggregate to at least 20 years and any such period or periods shall include a period or periods of incapacity while engaged in such an occupation 6. Emphysema B. subtilis proteases , cadmium fumes Inhalation of cadmium fumes for a period of, or periods which amount in aggregate to 20 years or more among 

Employees’ Social Security 135 DISEASE AGENT OCCUPATION/INDUSTRY Occupations involving the use or handling of (manufacturing, storage, disposal) and exposure to the agents exceeding Permissible Exposure Limits coal miners, textile manufacturing workers 7. Airway disease due to specific organic dust (a) Byssinosis (weaver’s cough or mill fever) Cotton dust, hemp, or sisal Exposure to cotton dust, cott on synthetic dusts or hemp or sisal dust among cotton industry workers (b) Flax-dressers disease Flax Work with exposure to flax dust 8. Pneumoconiosis Any occupation involving— (a) Silicosis (i) Acute silicosis Silica rock and other mineral dusts (a) the mining, quarrying or processing of silica rock, the use of dried quartzose sand (quartz, cristobalite, tridimite) or any dry deposit or dry residue of silica (silicon dioxide SiO2) or anydry admixture containing such materials, including hydrat ed magnesium silicate; (ii) Accelerated silicosis Dried quartzose sand (quartz, cristobalite, tridimite) or any dry deposit or dry residue of silica (silicon dioxide SiO2) or any dry admixture containing such materials, including hydrated magnesium silicate (b) the handling of any of the materials specified in subparagraph (a) in or incidental to any of the operations mentioned therein or substantial exposure to the dust arising from such operations, grinding, drilling, braking of silica containing rocks, ceramics and glass manufacture; (iii) Chronic silicosis (c) the breaking, crushing or grinding of flint or the working or handling of broken, crushed or ground flint or materials containing such flint or substantial exposure to the dust arising from such operations; (d) sand blasting by means of compressed air with the use of quartzose sand or crushed silica rock or flint or substantial exposure to the dust arising from such sand blasting; (e) boiler scaling or substantial exposure to the dust arising there from; 

136 Laws of Malaysia ACT 4 DISEASE AGENT OCCUPATION/INDUSTRY Occupations involving the use or handling of (manufacturing, storage, disposal) and exposure to the agents exceeding Permissible Exposure Limits (f) occupation in a foundry or the performance of, or substantial exposure to the dust arising from, any of the following operations; (g) the freeing of steel castings from adherent siliceous substance; (h) the freeing of metal castings from adherent siliceous substance; (i) the manufacture of china or earthenware (including sanitary earthenware, electrical earthenware tiles), and any occupation involving substantial exposure to the dust arising there from; (j) the dres sing of granite or any igneous rock by masons or the crushing of such materials or substantial exposure to the dust arising from such operations; or (k) the use, or preparation for use, of a grind -stone or substantial exposure to the dust arising there from (b) Silicosis associated with tuberculosis Any of the above agents in concurrent with infection by Mycobacterium tuberculosis Any occupation involving– (a) the mining, quarrying or processing of silica rock, the use of dried quartzose sand (quartz, cristobalite, tridimite) or any dry deposit or dry residue of silica (silicon dioxide SiO2) or any dry admixture containing such materials, including hydrated magnesium silicate; (b) the handling of any of the materials specified in subparagraph (a) in or incidental to any of the operations mentioned therein or substantial exposure to the dust arising from such operations, grinding, drilling, braking of silica 

Employees’ Social Security 137 DISEASE AGENT OCCUPATION/INDUSTRY Occupations involving the use or handling of (manufacturing, storage, disposal) and exposure to the agents exceeding Permissible Exposure Limits containing rocks, ceramics and glass manufacture; (c) the breaking, crushing or grinding of flint or th e working or handling of broken, crushed or ground flint or materials containing such flint or substantial exposure to the dust arising from such operations; (d) sand blasting by means of compressed air with the use of quartzose sand or crushed silica rock or flint or substantial exposure to the dust arising from such sand blasting; (e) boiler scaling or substantial exposure to the dust arising there from; (f) occupation in a foundry or the performance of, or substantial exposure to the dust arising from, any of the following operations; (g) the freeing of steel castings from adherent siliceous substance; (h) the freeing of metal castings from adherent siliceous substance; (i) the manufacture of china or earthen-ware (including sanitary earthenware, electrical earthenware til es), and any occupation involving substantial exposure to the dust arising there from; (j) the dressing of granite or any igneous rock by masons or the crushing of such materials or substantial exposure to the dust arising from such operations; or (k) the use, o r preparation for use, of a grindstone or substantial 

138 Laws of Malaysia ACT 4 DISEASE AGENT OCCUPATION/INDUSTRY Occupations involving the use or handling of (manufacturing, storage, disposal) and exposure to the agents exceeding Permissible Exposure Limits exposure to the dust arising there from. 9. C o a l m i n e r s ’ pneumoconiosis and other coal related lung disease Coal Coal or any mine (underground or above ground) in which one of the objects of the mining operations is the getting of any mineral, or the working or handling of any minerals extracted there from 10. Graphite fibrosis (of lung) (graphite pneumoconiosis) Graphite (natural and artificial) Exposure during production of natural or artifici al graphite articles and dust arising from grinding 11. Stannosis Tin Exposure to tin dust or fumes during tin mining and metallurgy 12. Siderosis Iron dusts Exposure to inhalation of dusts containing iron and hematite 13. Baritosis Barium dust Exposure during well drilling, alloys with aluminum, and use of barium carbonate in water treatment and as flux in ceramics 14. Talcosis Talc Exposure during talc manufacture 15. Pneumoconiosis due to padi husk Padi husk or dust or a substance containing padi Exposure to padi husk, dust or a substance containing padi 16. Hypersensitivity pneumonitis (Extrinsic allergic alveolitis) due to organic dusts Exposure to moulds or fungal spores or heterologous proteins by reason of employment in: (a) Thermophilic bacteria and bacterial product (a) agriculture, horticulture, forestry, cultivation of edible fungi or malt working; or (b) loading or unloading or handling storage mouldy vegetable matter or edible fungi (i) (i) Farmers lung Micropolyspora faeni Faenia rectivirgula Farmers exposed the agents (ii) Mushroom worker’s lung Thermoactinomyces vulgaris Micropolyspora faeni Workers exposed during mushroom production (iii) Bagassosis Thermoactinomyces sachari Thermoactinomyces vulgaris Exposure to the agent in sugarcane plantations 

Employees’ Social Security 139 DISEASE AGENT OCCUPATION/INDUSTRY Occupations involving the use or handling of (manufacturing, storage, disposal) and exposure to the agents exceeding Permissible Exposure Limits (iv) Sisal worker’s disease Rope dust Exposure to the agent among bag and rope makers (v) Coffee worker’s lung Coffee bean dust Exposure to the agent among coffee workers (b) Non thermophilic Bacteria (i) Fertiliser workers lung Thermoactinomyces vulgaris Thermoactinomyces candidus Farmers exposed the agents when handling fertiliser (ii) Millers’ lung Sitophilus granaries (wheat weevil) Exposure to agent through dust contaminated grain (iii) Detergent workers lung Detergent dust Exposure to the detergent beads and dust B. Fungsi 1. Wood worker’s lung, wood pulp worker’s lung Moldy bark dust Exposure to the agent among lumber barkers and loggers 2. Wheat weevils disease Infected wheat flour Exposure to the agent among flou r workers 3. Papermill worker’s lung Moldy wood chips Exposure to the agent among paper mill workers C. Animal Proteins 1. Bird fancier’s disease Parakeets Exposure to the agent among bird handlers 2. Pigeon breeder’s lung Pigeons Exposure to the agent among pigeon handlers 3. Poultry handler’s lung Chickens Exposure to the agent among poultry farmers 4. Furrier’s lung Turkey Exposure to the agent among furriers 5. Rodent handler’ disease Rats Exposure to the agent among animal laboratory workers D. Chemicals 1. Hypersensitivity pneumonitis Toluene diisocyanate (TDI), hexamethylene diisocyanate, diphenylmethane diisocyanate (MDI) Exposure to agent during use as industrial solvent, among foundry workers and polyurethane foam workers 

140 Laws of Malaysia ACT 4 DISEASE AGENT OCCUPATION/INDUSTRY Occupations involving the use or handling of (manufacturing, storage, disposal) and exposure to the agents exceeding Permissible Exposure Limits Trimellitic anhydride Exposure to the agent among epoxy resins and paint manufacturer 2. Hard metal lung disease Cobalt in solvents Tungsten carbide workers with exposure to cobalt 3. Chronic beryllium disease Beryllium particulate Exposure to beryllium during extraction; use in metallurgy, aerospace industry and nuclear industry 4. Organic dust toxic syndrome Moldy hay and grain, compost, Moldy sugar cane, coffee bean dust, moldy bark dust, infected wheat flour, cheese mold, moldy lic hen, parakeets, pigeons, chicken ducks, fox, rats and other organic dust Exposure to the agents during agricultural activities 5. Legionellosis Legionella pneumophila Exposure to Legionella pneumophila due to contaminated ventilation system in the working environment 6. Occupationally caused lung cancer Arsenic, antimony, asbestos, nickel oxides, nickel subsulphide, Bis (chloromethyl) ether, chromium compound (hexavalent), calcium chromate, zinc chromate, strontium chromate in their pure forms, mustar d gas, mineral oil, polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon, radon, wood dust Workers with direct exposure to specific agents 

Employees’ Social Security 141 PART IX SKIN DISEASE AGENT OCCUPATION/INDUSTRY Occupations involving the use or handling of (manufacturing, storage, disposal) and exposure to the agents exceeding Permissible Exposure Limits 1. Allergic contact dermatitis (a) Adhesives, antiseptics, antibiotics-Animal feeds with antibiotics (b) Biocide-(formaldehyde, Thimerosal) (c) Cements (chromate, cobalt) (d) Cosmetics – fragrances (e) Cutting fluids and oils (f) Dyes-hair dyes (paraphenylene diamine, photographic colour developers, disperse textile dyes), disinfectants (g) Food (vegetables, seafood, salad dressings, meat, fruits, flavouring agent, antioxidants) (h) Glues and bonding agents (i) Metals–nickel (nickel utensils), chromate, cobalt, mercury (j) Plant and tree (preservatives)–wood and its preservatives (k) Urushiol (Toxicodendron), Sesquiterpene lactones (Compositae), Primin (Primula obconica), Tulpalin A (Tulipa, Alstroemeria) (l) Plastic-(epoxy monom er, acrylic monomer, phenolic resins, amine catalysts) (m) Resins-(epoxy, acrylates, isocyatanes, formaldehyde Workers with direct exposure to these agents 

142 Laws of Malaysia ACT 4 SKIN DISEASE AGENT OCCUPATION/INDUSTRY Occupations involving the use or handling of (manufacturing, storage, disposal) and exposure to the agents exceeding Permissible Exposure Limits resins), soldering fluxes (amines and colophony) (n) Rubber products (additives-mercaptobenz- othiazole, thiurams, carbamates, thioureas) - gloves, boots and mask (rubber chemicals) 2. Ir ri t a n t c on t a c t d erma t i t i s (a) Alcohols, glycols, water (b) Animals feeds, fertilizers, plants, pesticides (c) Amine catalyst, styrene, benzoyl peroxide (d) Aliphatic –petroleum distillates (kerosene, gasoline), naptha, oils, hand cleaners (e) Aromatic –benzene, toluene, xylene (f) Cutting fluids, abrasiv es, oils, hand cleansers (g) Chemicals, acids and alkalis (cements) (h) Eploxy, phenolic, acryli monomers (i) Halogenated - trichloroethylene, chloroform, and methylene chloride (j) Metal –arsenic, chrome (k) Other agents -turpentine, ketones, esters, wood dust, lacquer, polishes (l) Plastics–soap and detergents, shampoos, permanent wave solutions, resins, disinfectants, antiseptics, medicaments, surfactants Workers with direct exposure to the agents 

Employees’ Social Security 143 SKIN DISEASE AGENT OCCUPATION/INDUSTRY Occupations involving the use or handling of (manufacturing, storage, disposal) and exposure to the agents exceeding Permissible Exposure Limits (m) Solvents-photo-toxins: coal tar, furocoumarins, dyes, drugs (n) Photo-allergens–plants, stillbenes, ammino benzoi acid derivatives and halogenated salicylanilides (o) Wood preservatives, fiberglass, solvents, oil, pitch, tar, paints vegetables and fruits juices (enzymes ), polishing agents 3. Acne and chloracne (a) Oils and grease and hot humid conditions in the workplace (b) Chloracne-polyhalogenated, napthalenes, biphenols, dibenzofurans and some herbicides contaminants Workers with direct exposure to oils, grease and hot humid conditions in the workplace Workers with direct exposure to the agents 4. Chrome ulceration, ulceration of the mucous membrane or the epidermis Chromic acid, chromate or dichromate of ammonium, potassium, zinc or sodium, or any preparation or solution containing any of these substances Workers with direct exposure to the agents 5. Contact urticaria (a) Allergens-latex, corn starch, animal fur and dander, antibiotic, acrylates, epoxy resins, formaldehyde, f oodstuffs e.g. eggs, carrots, fish, meat and milk (b) Non -immunological agents -ethyl/butyl/ isopropyl/acetyl, alcohol, sorbic acid, benzoic acid, sulphur dioxide (c) Ammonia, (may be either allergic or non -allergic cinnamic acid) potato, apple, lettuce, ammonium persulphate, xylene Workers with direct exposure to the agents 

144 Laws of Malaysia ACT 4 SKIN DISEASE AGENT OCCUPATION/INDUSTRY Occupations involving the use or handling of (manufacturing, storage, disposal) and exposure to the agents exceeding Permissible Exposure Limits 6. Dermatitis Rengas wood and its sap Exposure to the agent during manipulation of rengas wood or any process in or incidental to the manufacture of articles herefrom 7. Flash kerato-conjunctivitis or retinitis Electro-welding or acetylene welding UV light Exposure during electro -welding or acetylene welding 8. Localised new growth of skin, papilloma,or keratotic lesions Beryllium, shale oils, tar, pitch, bitumen, mineral oil, and soot Workers with direct exposure to the agents 9. Mite dermatitis Owls and pigeons and other bids with mites Exposure to the agent during handling of owls and pigeons infested with mites 10. Occupational skin ulceration Corrosives irritant chemicals Exposure to the agent during handling of corrosives irritant chemicals 11. Occupational/ toxic vitiligo (leucoderma) (a) Phenols-paratertiary butylphenol (4 -tert- butylphenol), paratertiary- butylcatechol (4 -tert- butylcatechol), para - amylphenol (p -pentyl phenol) Workers with direct exposure to the agents (b) Cathechols-catechols (pyrocatechol), p-methyl catechol, 4-isopropyl catechol, 4-tert-butyl catechol (c) Hydroquinone, monobenzyl ether of hydroquinone (4- benzyloxyphenol) or mono-butyl ether of hydroquinone (4- butoxyphenol) 12. Occupational skin cancer Arsenic or arsenic compounds, tar, pitch, polyaromatic hydrocarbon, bitumen, mineral oil (including paraffin), soot, organic dust ultraviolet radiation Workers with direct exposure to the agents 

Employees’ Social Security 145 PART X DISEASE Occupational Musculo-Skeletal Disease AGENT/ERGONOMIC RISK FACTOR OCCUPATION/INDUSTRY Occupations involving exposure to multiple ergonomic risk factors – forceful, very highly repetitive, non - neutral work, prolonged duration, vibration, heavy load and exceeding Permissible Exposure Limits 1. Upper limb (a) Thoracic Outlet Syndrome Work involving pulling the shoulders back and down, working overhead with repeated abduction and adduction of the shoulder and arm resulting in compression of t he neurovascular structures passing out of the chest, neck and beneath the clavicle to the axilla Workers with activities characterised by multiple ergonomic risk factors (b) Rotator Cuff Syndrome Tasks associated with highly rapid repetitive and vigor ous movement, overstraining of the muscle and tendons, with excessive forces around the shoulder Workers with activities characterised by multiple ergonomic risk factors (c) Beat hand Tasks with rapid, repetitive, excessive manual task causing severe or prolonged external friction or stress/pressure on the bursa of hand causing severe or prolonged friction or pressure on the hand Workers with activities characterised by multiple ergonomic risk factors (d) Beat elbow Tasks with rapid, repetitive, excessive manual task causing severe or prolonged external friction or stress/pressure at bursa of the elbow Workers with forceful, highly repetitive wrist/finger flexion and flexed elbow (e) Medial epicondylitis (Golfer’s elbow) Highly repetitive forc eful movements, involving finger and wrist flexors/pronators Workers with repeated forceful wrist extension and power grasp (f) Lateral epidcondylitis (Tennis elbow) Highly repetitive forceful wrist dorsiflexion Workers with constant or repetitive forceful pinching with thumb while executing, forceful exertions and extreme postures of the wrist, especially a combination of these with injury to body limbs and appendages 

146 Laws of Malaysia ACT 4 DISEASE Occupational Musculo-Skeletal Disease AGENT/ERGONOMIC RISK FACTOR OCCUPATION/INDUSTRY Occupations involving exposure to multiple ergonomic risk factors – forceful, very highly repetitive, non - neutral work, prolonged duration, vibration, heavy load and exceeding Permissible Exposure Limits (g) Radial styloid tenosynovitis (De Quervains tenosynovitis) Constant or highly repetitive movements, forceful exertions and extreme postures of the wrist, especially a combination of these with injury to body limbs and appendages Workers with forceful, frequent, repetitive movement with hand -held vibrating tools whose internal parts vibrate so as to transmit that vibration to the hand; work involving extreme postures of the wrist or hand (h) Carpal Tunnel Syndrome (Median nerve) Highly repetitive movements, forceful exertions, extreme postures of the wrist and extreme movements o f hyperflexion and hyperextension causing prolonged pressure on the anatomical grooves resulting in nerve injuries. Forceful, frequent repetitive movement, with vibrating tools, work involving extreme pressure and postures of the wrist, especially a combination of these risk factors 2. Lower limbs (a) Beat knee (Housemaid’s knee) Bursitis or subcutaneous cellulitis arising at or above the knee Workers with rapid, repetitive, excessive manual task causing severe or prolonged friction or stress on t he bursa of at or about the knee. Worker who kneel a lot (b) Tarsal Tunnel Syndrome (Posterior tibial nerve) Forceful, frequent, prolonged and repetitive movement of the foot Workers with rapid, repetitive, excessive movement of the foot PART XI PSYCHOSOCIAL DISEASE AGENT OCCUPATION/INDUSTRY 1. Post-traumatic stress disorder Extreme traumatic stress or intense fear, helplessness or horror Worker exposed to extreme stress caused by an accident or incident arising out of and in the course of employment 

Employees’ Social Security 147 PART XII OCCUPATIONAL CANCERS AGENT OCCUPATIONAL CANCER OCCUPATION/INDUSTRY Occupations involving the use or handling of (manufacture, transport, storage, disposal) and exposure to the agents exceeding Permissible Exposure Limits 1. 4-Aminobiphenyl (IARC 1) Cancer of the epithelial lining of the urinary tract and bladder (papilloma), liver neurological disorder Exposure to agent during the use or handling of or exposure to the fumes, dust or vapour of 4 -aminobiphenyl or substances containing 4-aminobiphenyl; use in chemical synthesis industry and rubber manufacturing 2. Ac r yl on i t ri l e ( IAR C 2 A) Lung and prostate cancer, lymphoma, ployneuropathy Exposure to acrylonitrile; use in textile fiber manufacture, acrylonitrile polymerizat ion and rubber, plastics, textile industry 3. Arsenic (IARC 1) Malignant neoplasm of skin (squamous cell carcinoma), larynx, bronchus and lungs, haemangiosarcoma Exposure during mining, copper smelting, glass manufacture, production; use of arsenic pesticides, herbicides, insecticides, tanning and glass making 4. Asbestos (IARC 1) Lung-Diffuse malignant mesothelioma (pleura, pericardium, peritoneum), pleura, gastrointestinal tract cancer-oesophagus, peritoneum, large intestine Exposure to asbestos, dust or any admixture of asbestos at a level above that commonly found in the environment especially at mines or quarries; during asbestos based product manufacture, demolition or asbestos removal work Malignant neoplasm of bronchus, larynx, lungs, kidney 5. Benzene or its toxic homologues (nitro-and amino-derivatives) (IARC 1) Leukaemia, hodgkin lymphoma, other blood malignancies Exposure to benzene or its toxic homologues during work with coke ovens, shoe manufacture using benzene, solvents with benzene, fuel and petroleum industry 6. Benzidine and salts (IARC 1) Malignancy of the bladder Exposure to benzidine during dye or pigment manufacture, laboratory agent; use in paper, leather, textile and dye industry 7. Benz-o-pyrene (IARC 2A) Malignancy of lungs, skin and bladder Exposure to the benz -o-pyrene when using or handling it; use in research 8. Beryllium (IARC 1) Malignant neoplasm of bronchus and lungs Exposure during production of hard, corrosion-resistant alloys in aerospace industry, nuclear reactors; ceramic and refractory products, electrical contacts, switches, welding electrodes, cathode ray 

148 Laws of Malaysia ACT 4 AGENT OCCUPATIONAL CANCER OCCUPATION/INDUSTRY Occupations involving the use or handling of (manufacture, transport, storage, disposal) and exposure to the agents exceeding Permissible Exposure Limits tubes, metallic alloys and lithography for the electronics industry 9. β-naphthylamine (IARC 1) Cancer bladder, methaemoglobinemia, ataxia Exposure during use for dye or pigment manufacture 10. Bis-chloromethyl ether (BCME), Chloromethylmethyl ethers (IARC 1) Malignancy of the bronchus and lung Exposures to Bis -chloromethyl ether produced during the manufacture of chloromethyl methyl ether; use in the chemical industry as chemical intermediate 11. Cadmium and its compounds (IARC 1) Malignant neoplasm of bronchus and lungs Exposure during electroplating; manufacture of nickel -cadmium batteries, high speed bearings, soldering, welding and silver brazing (as fillers); use in plastics industry (stabiliser); use as pigments (in rubber, ink, plastics, paint, textiles) and jewellery manufacture 12. Chromium – its compounds-hexavalent (IARC 1) Malignant neoplasm of bronchus and lungs, nasal cancer Exposure during electroplating, dye or pigment manufacture and welding 13. Coal tars and coal tar pitches; soot asphalt, creosote or bitumen, anthracene, mineral oil, volatiles, and residues of these substances. Particulate polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon (IARC 1) Cancer of the skin, bronchus and lung, bladder, larynx, mouth cavity Exposures to the agent during building material use, electrodes, coal gasification and coke production - petroleum production, pigment manufacture, road paving a nd insulation 14. Ethylene oxide (IARC 1) Leukaemia, cataract Exposure during use in manufacture of ethylene glycol, glycol ethers and medical products; use as a pesticide fumigant, sterilant in hospitals 15. Ethylene dibromide (1,2-dibromoethane) (IARC 2A) Cancer of the stomach Exposure to the agent during the use, handling of, or exposure to the fumes, dust or vapour of ethylene dibromide or a substance containing dibromide 16. Formaldehyde (IARC 2A) Cancer nasopharyngeal, sino -nasal, brain an d leukaemia Exposure to the agent during use as tissue preservative in mortuary and laboratories 17. Haematite Lung cancer Exposure to the agent during the use, handling and exposure to the fumes, 

Employees’ Social Security 149 AGENT OCCUPATIONAL CANCER OCCUPATION/INDUSTRY Occupations involving the use or handling of (manufacture, transport, storage, disposal) and exposure to the agents exceeding Permissible Exposure Limits dust or vapour of haematite, during mining (with exposure to radon) 18. Ionizing radiations (IARC 1) Malignant neoplasm – bone and skin, leukaemia Exposure to X-rays, nuclear reactors, ionising particle, radium, other radio active substance or radiant energy 19. Mineral oil, untreated and mildly treated (IARC 1) Skin and scrotum cancer Exposure to the agent during use as lubricants 20. Mustard gas (IARC 1) Lung, larynx, pharyngeal cancer Exposure to mustard gas-war gas 21. Nickel – its compounds subsulphite and carbonyl (IARC 1) Malignancy of the bronchus and lung, mucous membrane of the nose or associated air sinuses Exposure during concentrating, smelting or refining in the nickel producing industry, stainless steel production, manufacture of batteries, metallurgy, alloys, electroplating; use as catalysts and pigments; sulphide nickel ore miners and high nickel alloy manufacture workers 22. Radium (IARC 1) Bone (sarcomas) The use, handling of, or exposure to the fumes, dust or vapour of radium 23. Radon progeny (IARC 1) Malignant neoplas m of bronchus and lungs Exposure to agent in underground mining, processing of ores and radioactive products 24. Shale oils (IARC 1) Skin and scrotum cancer The use, handling of, or exposure to shale oils 25. Soot, tars and mineral oils Skin, lun g and bladder cancer, dystrophy of corneral surface Exposure to the agent during road making 26. Vinyl chloride monomer (IARC 1) Angiosarcoma of the liver, malignant neoplasm of liver and intrahepatic bile ducts, brain and lung Exposure to the agent dur ing manufacturing of vinyl chloride, vinyl chloride polymerization and plastic industry 27. Hardwood dust Cancer nasopharyx, nose and lung Exposure to the agent during woodwork, cabinet and furniture makers 

150 Laws of Malaysia ACT 4 PART XIII 1. For the purpose of this Schedule— (a) “permissible exposure limits” means a ceiling limit or an eight -hour time-weighted average airborne concentration or the maximum exposure limit as defined under the Occupational Safety and Health (Use And Standard Of Exposure Of Chemicals Hazardous To Health) Regulations 2000 [P.U. (A) 131/2000]; (b) “IARC” means International Agency for Research on Cancer; (c) “Group 1 IARC” means the agent is a definite human carcinogen; and (d) “Group 2A IARC” means the agent is probably human carcinogen. 2. For the purpose of determining an occupational disease, this Schedule shall be read together with— (a) the Factories and Machinery Act 1967, the Occupational Safety and Health Act 1994, Regulations made under these Acts, Regulations, Guidelines, Code of Practice with regards to occupational exposures of the agent; (b) the guidelines on the Diagnosis of Occupational Diseases issued by the Organization; and (c) the guidelines on the Medical Surveillance made under the Occupational Safety and Health (Use And Standard Of E xposure Of Chemicals Hazardous To Health) Regulations 2000. SIXTH SCHEDULE [Section 59D] Meetings 1. (1) The Board shall meet at least three times in each year. (2) Meetings of the Board shall be convened by the Chairman or, in his absence, by a ny person appointed by the Minister to act as Chairman, and notification of meetings shall be issued over the signature of the Chairman, any person appointed by the Minister to act as Chairman or the Secretary. (3) The quorum of the Board shall be six me mbers including the Chairman or any person appointed by the Minister to act as Chairman presiding. 

Employees’ Social Security 151 (4) Where the Board has to determine any question by a vote, and an equality of votes results, the Chairman shall have a casting vote in addition to his de liberative vote. (5) The Board may request any person, not being one of its members, to attend any meeting for the purpose of advising it or furnishing information on any matter under discussion but any person so attending shall have no right to vote. (6) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Board shall regulate its own procedure. Minutes 2. (1) The Board shall cause minutes of all its meetings to be maintained in proper form and include a record of all decisions taken. (2) Minutes of meetings of the Board shall be duly signed and such minutes be receivable in evidence in all legal proceedings without further proof, and every meeting of the Board in respect of the proceedings of which minutes have been so made shall be deemed to have been duly convened and held and all members thereat to have been duly qualified to act. Common seal 3. (1) The Organization shall have a common seal which shall bear such device as the Board shall approve, and such seal may from time to time be broken, changed, altered or made anew as the Board may think fit. (2) Until a seal is provided by the Board a stamp bearing the description “Pertubuhan Keselamatan Sosial” may be used and shall be deemed to be a common seal. (3) The common seal or the stamp referred to in subparagraph (2) shall be kept in the custody of the Director General or such other person as may be authorized by the Board and shall be authenticated by either the Chairman or such person as may be authorized by the Board in writing; and all deeds, d ocuments and other instruments purporting to be sealed with the said seal authenticated as aforesaid, shall until the contrary is proved be deemed to have been validly executed: Provided that any document or instrument which if executed by a person not being a body corporate would not be required under seal, may in like manner be executed by the Board and any such document or instrument may be executed on behalf of the Board by an officer or servant of the Organization generally or specially authorized by the Board in that behalf. 

152 Laws of Malaysia ACT 4 (4) All courts, judges and persons acting judicially shall take judicial notice of the seal of the Organization. Validity of act or proceedings 4. No act or proceedings taken under this Act shall be questioned on the ground— (a) of any vacancy in the membership of, or of any defect in the constitution of the Board; or (b) of any omission, defect or irregularity not affecting the merits of the case. SEVENTH SCHEDULE [Section 59O (2)] 1. The staff rules made under section 59O may provide for any or all of the following— (a) regulating the amount of salaries, fees and allowances payable to officers and servants of the Organization; (b) regulating the grant of leave to such officers and servants; (c) authorizing the payment of all allowa nces to such officers and servants while on leave; (d) determining the remuneration to be paid to persons appointed to act for any such officers or servants during their absence on leave; (e) regulating the period of service of all such officers and servants; (f) (Deleted by Act A814); (g) determining the conditions under which gratuities or compassionate allowances may be paid to such officers and servants injured or to the surviving relatives of any such officers and servants, killed in the execution of their duty; (h) the establishment, maintenance and administration of a pension scheme for the provision of payments of pensions, gratuities or other allowances on superannuation, resignation, retirement or discharge of officers and servants of the Organization and for the establishment and maintenance of a pension fund; and 

Employees’ Social Security 153 (i) the establishment and administration of a superannuation scheme for the granting of such gratuities and allowances on death, superannuation, resignation, retirement or discharge of subordinate officers and servants of the Organization as may be deemed expedient and for the granting of such gratuities and allowances as may be deemed expedient to any one or more of the surviving dependants of any person who having been employed as a subordinate officer or servant of the Organization dies after having been superannuated or discharged or after having resigned or retired. (j) (Deleted by Act A814). 2. The following provisions shall apply to any staff rules made by virtue of paragraph 1(g), (h) and (i): (a) no gratuity, allowance or other payment payable under any such rule nor any right interest acquired by any person to any gratuity, allowance or other payment thereunder shall be assignable or transferable or liable to be attached, sequestrated, levied upon, for or in respect of any debt or claim whatsoever other than a debt due to the Organization; (b) any moneys paid under any such rule on the death of any person shall be deemed to be impressed with a trust in favour of the persons entitled thereto under the will or intestacy of such deceased person, but shall not be deemed to form part of his estate or be subject to his debts; (c) any person may by his will or by a memorandum under his hand appoint a trustee of the moneys payable on his death under any such rule, and may provide for the appointment of a new trustee of such moneys and for the investment thereof; (d) if at the time of the death of any person or at any time afterwards there is no trustee of such moneys or it is expedient to appoint a new trustee, such trustee may be appointed by the High Court or a Judge thereof; (e) the receipt of a trustee duly appointed, or in default of any such appointment, the receipt of the legal personal representative of a deceased person, shall be a discharge for any moneys payable on his death under any such rule; (f) any employee of the Organization who is otherwise entitled to any benefit under any such rule shall, if he is dismissed from the service of the Organization for fraud or dishonesty or misconduct, which involves pecuniary loss to the Organization, or retires from or resigns his office with intent to escape discharge or dismissal in consequence of such fraud, dishonesty or misconduct, forfeit and lose the whole or such part of such benefits as the Board may in its absolute discretion direct; and 

154 Laws of Malaysia ACT 4 (g) with the approval of the Minister the Board may, in its discretion, in consideration of long or special services of any officer or servant of the Organization whose case does not come within the scope and effect of the Organization’s pension scheme or superannuation scheme rules, pay to such officer or servant upon his death, a gratuity or compassionate allowance on such terms and conditions as the Board may determine. 3. Staff Rules which are inconsistent with any terms and conditions of service approved by the Government in relation to officers and servants of statutory bodies shall have no effect. EIGHT SCHEDULE [Section 20A] SURVIVORS’ PENSION 1. Daily rate of survivors’ pension shall be the amount of the monthly rate of invalidity pension paid or payable to the deceased insured person for the month immediately preceding the month of death divided by the number of days in the month in which the pension is paid or payable. 2. Where the insured person has not attained sixty years of age but has completed the full qualifying period as specified under section 17A, the daily rate of survivors’ pension shall be a basic amount equivalent to fifty per cent of his average monthly wage, increased by one per cent of the average monthly wage for every twelve months contributions paid in excess of the first twenty -four months, but subject to the maximum of sixty -five per cent of the average monthly wage in respect of him during the period between the date when contributions first become p ayable by him and the date of his death, divided by the number of days in the month in which the pension is paid or payable. 3. Where an insured person has not attained sixty years of age but has completed the reduced qualifying period as specified under section 17A, the daily rate of survivors’ pension shall be an amount equivalent to fifty per cent of his average monthly wage divided by the number of days in the month in which the pension is paid or payable. 4. (1) The term “average monthly wage” as men tioned in paragraphs 2 and 3 refers to the average of assumed monthly wage corresponding to the last twenty-four monthly contributions in respect of the insured person which have been paid immediately before the date of his death: 

Employees’ Social Security 155 Provided that a minimum average monthly wage shall be three hundred and forty-two ringgit and eighty-six sen subject to such amount as may be prescribed by the Minister from time to time by regulations. (2) Assumed monthly wage to which a monthly contribution corresponds shal l be deemed to be as indicated in the Fourth Schedule. 5. Daily rate of survivors’ pension shall be payable as follows: (a) for the widow or widower, an amount equivalent to three -fifths of the daily rate of survivors’ pension; (b) for each child, two-fifths of the daily rate of survivors’ pension: Provided that if the total of survivors’ pension distributed among the widow or widower and children exceeds at any time the daily rate of survivors’ pension, the share of each dependant shall be proportionately red uced so that the total amount payable does not exceed the daily rate of survivors’ pension: Provided further that the daily rate of survivors’ pension for each child shall be three-fifths of the daily rate of survivors’ pension if there is no widow or widower or if the widow or widower dies, and if there be more than one child, the amount payable shall be equally divided among them. 6. If an insured person who is in receipt of invalidity pension, or if an insured person who has not attained sixty years of age but has completed a full or reduced qualifying period as specified under section 17A, dies and does not leave a widow or widower or child, survivors’ pension shall be payable to other dependants as follows: (a) to a parent or grandparent, for life, an amount equivalent to four-tenths of the daily rate of survivors’ pension, and if there are two or more parents or grandparents, the amount payable shall be divided equally among them; (b) to any other dependant until marriage or until he attains the age of twenty- one years, whichever is the earlier, or if widowed until re -marriage or until he attains the age of twenty -one years, whichever is the earlier, an amount equivalent to three-tenths of the daily rate of survivors’ pension, and if there is more than one dependant under this subparagraph, the amount payable shall be divided equally among them. 7. (Deleted by Act A1232). 

156 Laws of Malaysia ACT 4 NINTH SCHEDULE [Section 75A] 1. The following persons shall be disqualified from being appointed or being a member of the Investment Panel: (a) a person who has been convicted of an offence involving fraud, cheating, criminal breach of trust, criminal misappropriation of property or any offence involving dishonesty or moral turpitude and has been sentenced to imprisonment for a term of not less than one year; (b) a bankrupt; and (c) a person of unsound mind or is otherwise incapable of performing his duties. 2. (1) A member of the Investment Panel shall cease to be a member— (a) if he fails to attend three consecutive meetings of the Investme nt Panel without leave of the Chairman of the Investment Panel; or (b) if his appointment is revoked by the Minister, in the case of a person appointed under paragraph 75A(2)(f). (2) A member appointed by the Minister under paragraph 75A(2)(f) may resign as a member of the Investment Panel by giving notice in writing to the Minister. (3) If any member of the Investment Panel has any beneficial interest in any matter under consideration by the Investment Panel, he shall forthwith declare to the Chairman the nature and extent of his interest in such matter and the Investment Panel shall decide whether or not he may take part in the meeting of the Investment Panel when such matter is being considered, notwithstanding his interest in such matter. (4) The Inve stment Panel shall meet as and when required to do so by the Chairman of the Investment Panel. (5) The Chairman and three other members of the Investment Panel shall form a quorum at any meeting of the Investment Panel. 

Employees’ Social Security 157 TENTH SCHEDULE [Sections 59V and 59W] MEMBERSHIP OF THE PROMOTION BOARDS AND APPEAL BOARDS Category of Officers Promotion Board Appeal Board 1. Services in Grade 21 Three members of the Board including the Director General, and a representative from the Ministry re sponsible for human resources, one of whom is to be appointed by the Board as Chairman Chairman of the Board .... Chairman Members of the Board .... Members 2. Services in Grade 12 to 20 Director General or his representative .... Chairman Head of Division or Branch of the Organization appointed by the Director General .... Member Principal Assistant Secretary, Ministry responsible for human resources and appointed by the Secretary General of the same Ministry .... Member Chairman of the Establishment Committee .... Chairman Members of the Establishment Committee .... Members 3. Services in Grade 11 and below Director General or his representative .... Chairman Two officers in Grade 21 appointed by the Director General .... Members Chairman of the Establishment Committee .... Chairman Members of the Establishment Committee .... Chairman 

158 Laws of Malaysia ACT 4 APPENDIX Date of coming into force [Subsection 1(3)] w.e.f. Area Provisions in force Authority 011971 Throughout Malaysia Part I; Part II—sections 3, 4 and 5: Part IV —sections 58, 59, 70 and 73-81; Part VII — sections 103 -105 and 108 P.U. (B) 322/1970 151971 Throughout Malaysia Sections 12 and 60-66 P.U. (B) 125/1971 011971 That area of land situated in the District of Johore Bahru a nd delineated in grey on Plan P.G. 659 as deposited in the office of the Director of Survey, Johore in terms of section 410 of the National Land Code 1965 Part II—sections 6-11, 13 and 14; Part III —sections 15 (except subsection (1)(a)), 22-34, 36-48, 50-55 and 57; Part IV —sections 67-69, 71, 72 and 82; Parts V and VI, Part VII —sections 96(1)(b), 97-102, 106, 107 and 109 P.U. (B) 330/1971 011972 Employees’ Social Security Area of Penang and delineated in grey on Plan P.G. 75 and Plan P.G. 76 as deposited in the office of the Director of Survey, Penang in terms of section 410 of the National Land Code 1965 Part II—sections 6-11, 13 and 14; Part III —sections 15 (except subsection (1) (a)), 22 -34, 36 - 48, 50-55 and 57; Part IV —sections 67 -69, 71, 72 and 82; Part V; Part VI; Part VII —sections 96(1)(b), 97-102, 106, 107 and 109 P.U. (B) 218/1972 011972 District of Kinta and delineated in grey on Plan P.G. 247 as deposited in the office of the Director of Survey, Perak in terms of section 410 of the National Land Code 1965 Part II—sections 6-11, 13 and 14; Part III —sections 15 (except subsection (1) (a)), 22 -34, 36 - 48, 50-55 and 57; Part IV —sections 67-69, 71, 72 and 82; Part V; Part VI; Part VII —sections 96(1) (b), 97-102, 106, 107 and 109 P.U. (B) 221/1972 011973 In the areas of land situated in— (i) the District of Kota Star and delineated in grey on Plan P.G. 551 as deposited in the office of the Director of Survey, Kedah and Perlis; Sections 6 to 11, 13 and 14 of Part II, section 15 (except subsection (1)(a) thereof); sections 22 to 34, 36 to 48, 50 to 55 and 57 of Part III P.U. (B) 539/1972 

Employees’ Social Security 159 w.e.f. Area Provisions in force Authority (ii) the District of Larut and Matang and delineated in grey on Plan P.G. 286 as deposited in the office of the Director of Survey, Perak; (iii) the District of Klang and delineated in grey on Plan P.G. 377 as deposited in the office of the Director of Survey, Selangor; (iv) the District of Klang and delineated in grey on Plan P.G. 378 as deposited in the office of the Director of Survey, Selangor; (v) the District of Seremban and delineated in grey on Plan P.G. 263 as deposited in the office of the Director of Survey, Negeri Sembilan; (vi) the Central District of Malacca and delineated in grey on Plan P.G. 97 as deposited in the office of the Director of Survey, Malacca; (vii) the District of Kuantan and delineated in grey on Plan P.G. 1063 as deposited in the office of the Director of Survey, Pahang, in terms of section 410 of the National Land Code 1965. Sections 67 to 69, 71, 72 and 82 of Part IV; Part V and VI, section 96(1)(b), sections 97 to 102, 106, 107 and 109 of Part VII 011973 In the areas of land situated in— (i) the Social Security Area of Kota Bharu and delineated in grey on Plan P.G. 160 as deposited in the office of the Director of Survey, Kelantan; (ii) the Social Security Area of Kuala Trengganu and delineated in grey on Plan P.G. 127 as deposited in the office of the Director of Survey, Terengganu; (iii) the Social Security Area of Province Wellesley and delineated in grey on Plan P.G. Part II—sections 6-11, 13 and 14; Part III —sections 15 (except subsection (1) (a)), 22 -34, 36 - 48, 50-55 and 57 Part IV —sections 67 -69, 71, 72 and 82; Parts V and VI; Part VII —sections 96(1) (b), 97-102, 106, 107 and 109 P.U. (B) 384/1973 

160 Laws of Malaysia ACT 4 w.e.f. Area Provisions in force Authority 122 as deposited in the office of the Director of Survey, Penang; (iv) the Social Security Area of Kangar and delineated in grey on Plan P.G. 572 as deposited in the office of the Director of Survey, Kedah and Perlis; (v) the Social Security Area of Kluang and delineated in grey on Plan P.G. 802 as deposited in the office of the Director of Survey, Johore; (vi) the Social Security Area of Batu Pahat and delineated in grey on Plan P.G. 803 as deposited in the office of the Director of Survey, Johore; (vii) the Social Security Area of Muar and delineated in grey on Plan P.G. 804 as deposited in the office of the Director of Survey, Johore, in terms of section 410 of the National Land Code 1965. 011974 That area of land delineated in red on Miscellaneous Plan No. 1062/13 as deposited in the office of Superintendent of Lands and Surveys, First Division, Kuching, Sarawak Sections 6 -11, 13, 14 and 15 (except subsection (1)(a)), 22- 34, 36 -48, 50 -55, 57, 67 -69, 71, 72, 82, 96(1) (b), 97 -102, 106, 107 and109 P.U. (B) 568/1973 011974 That area of land of approximately 7,890 acres shown as survey Lot No. 01200578, in the Kota Kinabalu District; 10 acres shown as survey Lot No. 21200360; 6 acres shown as survey Lot No. 21200359 and 290 acres shown as survey Lot No. 21200358 in the Penampang District and more particularly shown on plan No. 99197155 as deposited in the office of the Director of Lands and Surveys Department, Kota Kinabalu, Sabah Sections 6 -11, 13, 14 and 15 (except subsection (1)(a)), 22- 34, 36 -48, 50 -55, 57, 67 -69, 71, 72, 8296(1) (b), 97 -102,, 106, 107 and 109 P.U. (B) 569/1973 011974 In the areas of land situated in— (i) the Districts of Kuala Lumpur and Klang and delineated in grey on Plan P.G. 357 as deposited in the Sections 15(1) (a), 16 -21, 35, 49, 57, 96(1)(a) and 96(2) P.U. (B) 570/1973 

Employees’ Social Security 161 w.e.f. Area Provisions in force Authority office of the Director of Survey, Selangor; (ii) the Employees’ Social Security Area of Penang and delineated in grey on Plan P.G. 75 and Plan P.G. 76 as deposited in the office of the Director of Survey, Penang; (iii) the District of Kinta and delineated in grey on Plan P.G. 247 as deposited in the office of the Director of Survey, Perak; (iv) the District of Johore Bahru and delineated in grey on Plan P.G. 659 as deposited in the office of the Director of Survey, Johore; (v) the District of Kota Star and delineated in grey on Plan P.G. 551 as deposited in the office of the Director of Survey, Kedah and Perlis; (vi) the District of Larut and Matang and delineated in grey on Plan P.G. 286 as deposited in the office of the Director of Survey, Perak; (vii) the District of Klang and delineated in grey on Plan P.G. 377 as deposited in the office of the Direc tor of Survey, Selangor; (viii) the District of Klang and delineated in grey on Plan P.G. 378 as deposited in the office of the Director of Survey, Selangor; (ix) the District of Seremban and delineated in grey on Plan P.G. 263 as deposited in the office of the Dire ctor of Survey, Negeri Sembilan; (x) the Central District of Malacca and delineated in grey on Plan P.G. 97 as deposited in the office of the Director of Survey, Malacca; 

162 Laws of Malaysia ACT 4 w.e.f. Area Provisions in force Authority (xi) the District of Kuantan and delineated in grey on Plan P.G. 1063 as deposited in the office of the Director of Survey, Pahang; (xii) the Social Security Area of Kota Bharu and delineated in grey on Plan P.G. 160 as deposited in the office of the Director of Survey, Kelantan; (xiii) the Social Security Area of Kuala Terengganu and delineated in grey on Plan P.G. 127 as deposited in the office of the Director of Survey, Kuala Terengganu; (xiv) the Social Security Area of Province Wellesley and delineated in grey on Plan P.G. 122 as deposited in the office of the Director of Survey, Penang; (xv) the Social Security Area of Kangar and delineated in grey on Plan P.G. 572 as deposited in the office of the Director of Survey, Kedah and Perlis; (xvi) the Social Security Area of Kluang and delineated in grey on Plan P.G. 802 as deposited in the office of the Director of Survey, Johore; (xvii) the Social Security Area of Batu Pahat and delineated in grey on Plan P.G. 803 as deposited in the office of the Director of Survey, Johore; (xviii) the Social Security Area of Muar and delineated in grey on Plan P.G. 804 as deposited in the office of the Director of Survey, Johore. 011974 In— (i) the Social Security Area of Segamat as delineated in grey on Plan P.G877 deposited in Sections 6 -11, 13, 14, 15 -55, 57, 67-69, 71, 72, 82; Parts V and VI; sections 96 - 102, 106, 107 and 109 P.U. (B) 576/1974 

Employees’ Social Security 163 w.e.f. Area Provisions in force Authority the office of the Director of Survey, Johor; (ii) the Social Security Area of Kuala Pilah as delineated in grey on Plan P.G. 294 deposited in the office of the Director of Survey, Negeri Sembilan; (iii) the Social Security Area of Tapah as delineated in grey on Plan P.G. 329 deposited in the office of th e Director of Survey, Perak; (iv) the Social Security Area of Kuala Kangsar as delineated in grey on Plan P.G. 328 deposited in the office of the Director of Survey, Perak; (v) the Social Security Area of Telok Intan as delineated in grey on Plan P.G. 326 deposited in the office of the Director of Survey, Perak; (vi) the Social Security Area of Kulim as delineated in grey on Plan P.G. 584 deposited in the office of the Director of Survey, Kedah and Perlis; (vii) the Social Security Area of Dungun as delineated in grey on Plan P.G. 131 deposited in the office of the Director of Survey, Terengganu; (viii) the Social Security Area of Kuala Krai as delineated in grey on Plan P.G. 165 deposited in the office of the Director of Survey, Kelantan; (ix) the Social Security Area of Sungai Patani as delineated in grey on Plan P.G. 586 deposited in the office of the Director of Survey, Kedah and Perlis; (x) the Social Security Area of Rawang as delineated in grey on Plan P.G. 401 deposited in 

164 Laws of Malaysia ACT 4 w.e.f. Area Provisions in force Authority the office of the Director of Survey, Selangor; (xi) the Soci al Security Area of Temerloh as delineated in grey on Plan P.G. 1069 deposited in the office of the Director of Survey, Pahang; (xii) the Social Security Area of Bentong as delineated in grey on Plan P.G. 1068 deposited in the office of the Director of Survey, Pahang. 011975 In— (i) that area of land delineated in red on Miscellaneous Plan No. 1062/13 as deposited in the office of the Superintendent of Lands and Survey, First Division, Kuching; (ii) that area of land of approximately— (a) 7,890 acres shown as survey Lot No. 01200578 in the Kota Kinabalu District; (b) 10 acres shown as survey Lot No. 21200360 in the Penampang District; (c) 6 acres shown as survey Lot No. 21200359 in the Penampang District; (d) 510 acres shown as survey Lot No. 21200358 in the Penampang District, all of which appear more particularly on Plan No. 99197155 as deposited in the office of the Superintendent of Lands and Surveys, Kota Kinabalu. Sections 15(1) (a), 16-21, 35, 49, 57, 96(1)(a) and 96(2) P.U. (B) 239/1975 011976 In— (i) the whole State of Perlis (except the area of land delineated in grey on Plan P.G. Sections 6 to 11, 13, 14, 15 to 55, 57, 67 to 69, 71, 72, 82; P.U. (B) 27/1977 

Employees’ Social Security 165 w.e.f. Area Provisions in force Authority 572 deposited in the office of the Director of Surv ey, Kedah and Perlis); (ii) the whole of Penang Island (except the areas of land delineated in grey on Plans P.G. 75 and P.G. 76 deposited in the office of the Director of Survey, Penang); (iii) the whole of Province Wellesley(except the area of land delineated in grey on Plan P.G. 122 deposited in the office of the Director of Survey, Penang); (iv) the whole District of Kinta (except the area of land delineated in grey on Plan P.G. 247 deposited in the office of the Director of Survey, Perak); (v) the whole District of Jo hore Bahru(except the area of land delineated in grey on Plan P.G. 659 deposited in the office of the Director of Survey, Johore); and (vi) the whole District of Pontian. Part V and VI, sections 96 to 102, 107 and 109 011979 In— (i) Wilayah Persekutuan, Mukim Ampang, Mukims Ulu Kelang and Batu as in Plans P.G. 383, P.G. 417 and P.G. 415 (except the area of land delineated in grey on Plan P.G. 357) deposited in the office of the Director General of Survey and Director of National Mapping, Kuala Lumpur; (ii) Petaling District as in Plans P.G. 400 (except the areas of land delineated in grey on Plans P.G. 357 and P.G. 377) deposited in the office of the Director of Survey, Selangor. Sections 6 -11, 13, 14, 15 -55, 57, 67-69, 71, 72, 82; Parts V and VI; sections 96 - 102, 106, 107 and 109 P.U. (B) 711/1978 011980 Whole of Peninsular Malaysia other than in the 31 existing Social Security areas where they are already in force Sections 6 -11, 13, 14, 15 -55, 57, 67-69, 71, 72, 82; Parts V and VI; sections 96 - 102, 106, 107 and 109 P.U. (B) 486/1980 

166 Laws of Malaysia ACT 4 w.e.f. Area Provisions in force Authority 011980 Throughout Malaysia Sections 2 -12, 14, 33 -35 and 38-41 P.U. (B) 544/1980 011985 Throughout Malaysia Sections 13, 15-32, 36, 37 and 42 P.U. (B) 315/1985 011985 In the administrative district boundaries of Kuching (except the area of land delineated in red on Miscellaneous Plan No. 1062/13 as deposited in the office of the Superintendent of Lands and Surveys, First Division, Kuching, Sarawak), Bau, Lundu, Hilir Sadong, Hulu Sadong, Samarahan, Sibu, Oya Dalat, Mukah, Kanowit, Bintulu, Miri, Baram, Sri Aman, Lubuk Antu, Saribas and Kalaka as shown on Miscellaneous Plan No. 60280/1 Sections 6 -11, 13, 14, 15 -55, 57, 67-69, 71, 72, 82; Parts V and VI; sections 96 - 102, 106, 107 and 109 P.U. (B) 550/1985 011985 In the administrative district boundaries of Kota Kinabalu (except the area of land of approximately 7,890 acres shown as Survey Lot No. 01200578 in the Kota Kinabalu District and more particularly shown on Plan No. 99197155 as deposited in the office of the Director of Lands and Surveys, Kota Kinabalu, Sabah), Penampang (except the area of land of approximately10 acres shown as Survey Lot No. 21200360, 6 acres shown as Survey Lot No. 21200359 and 510 acres shown as Survey Lot No. 21200358 in the Penampang District and all of which are more particularly shown on Plan No. 99197155 as deposited in the office of the Director of Lands and Surveys, Kota Kinabalu, Sab ah), Papar, Tuaran, Ranau, Kota Belud, Sandakan, Kinabatangan, Labuk and Sugut, Tawau, Semporna, Kunak, Lahad Datu, Keningau, Tenom, Tambunan and Pensiangan as shown on Plan No. 99197300. Sections 6 to 11, 13, 14, 15 to 55, 57, 67 to 69, 71, 72, 82 Parts V and VI;; sections 96 - 102, 106, 107 and 109 P.U. (B) 551/1985 011987 In the areas of— Federal Territory of Labuan. Administrative districts of Kudat, Kota Marudu, Pitas, Beaufort, Sipitang and Kuala Penyu shown on Sections 6 -11, 13, 14, 15 -55, 57, 67-69, 71, 72, 82; Parts V and VI; sections 96 -102, 106, 107 and 109 P.U .(B) 626/1986 

Employees’ Social Security 167 w.e.f. Area Provisions in force Authority Plan No. 99197300 with the of fice of the Director of Lands and Surveys, Kota Kinabalu. Administrative districts of Kapit, Belaga, Song, Sarikei, Maradong, Julau, Matu Daro, Limbang and Lawas shown on Miscellaneous Plan No. 60280/1 with the office of the Superintendent of Lands and Surveys, Kuching. 

168 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 4 EMPLOYEES’ SOCIAL SECURITY ACT 1969 LIST OF AMENDMENTS Amending law Short title In force from Act A450 Employees’ Social Security (Amendment) Act 1979 s.2–12, 14, 33-35, 38–41: 011980 s. 13, 15–32, 36, 77 and 42: 011985 Act A499 Employees’ Social Security (Amendment) Act 1980 151980 Act A590 Employees’ Soc ial Security (Amendment) Act 1984 011985 Act A675 Employees’ Social Security (Amendment) Act 1987 011987 s. 2(e): 011971 s. 11, 12 (except paragraph (a)(iii)), 20 and 44 (except paragraphs (e) and (f)): 011986 s. 21: 061987 Act A814 Employees’ Social Security (Amendment) Act 1992 s.16(a): 011985 s. 18(a): 011971 s. 26, 30(b) and 31: 011985 s. 41: 011987 s. 3, 7, 11 –15, 16 (b), 17, 18(b),19, 21, 47 and 48: 

Employees’ Social Security 169 Amending law Short title In force from 011992 s. 2, 4, 5, 6, 8–10, 20, 22–26, 27– 30(a), 32–12 40, 42–46: 011992 Act 478 Revocation of Exemption From Payment of Stamp Duty 1992 211992 Act A830 Employees’ Social Security (Amendment) (No. 2) Act 1992 171992 Act A981 Employees’ Social Security (Amendment) Act 1997 s. 3-6, 10, 13-16: 011997 s. 2, 7-9, 11, 12, 17: 011997 Act A1232 Employees’ Social Security (Amendment) Act 2004 012005 P. U. (A) 32/2008 Employees’ Social Security (Amendment of Fifth Schedule) Order 2008 042008 Act A1445 Employees’ Social Security (Amendment) Act 2012 012013 Act A1508 Employees’ Social Security (Amendment) Act 2016 012016 P.U. (A) 144/2018 Employees’ Social Security (Amendment of First Schedule) Order 2018 012018 P.U. (A) 351/2018 Employees’ Social Security (Amendment of First Schedule) (No. 2) Order 2018 012019 P.U. (A) 247/2021 Employees’ Social Security (Amendment of First Schedule) Order 2021 012021 Act A1658 Employees’ Social Security (Amendment) Act 2022 012022 

170 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 4 EMPLOYEES’ SOCIAL SECURITY ACT 1969 LIST OF SECTIONS AMENDED Section Amending authority In force from Long title Act A814 011992 2 Act A450 011985 Act A590 011985 Act A675 011987 ss.2(11) from 011971 Act A814 011992 Act A981 011997 Act A1232 012005 Act A1445 012013 3 Act A675 011988 Act A814 011992 Act A1445 012013 5 Act A1508 012016 Act A1658 012022 6 Act A450 011985 Act A675 011987 Act A814 011992 Act A1232 012005 9 Act A675 011987 9A Act A675 011987 Act A814 011992 9B Act A814 011992 10 Act A675 011987 Act A1232 012005 

Employees’ Social Security 171 Section Amending authority In force from 12 Act A814 011992 Act A1232 012005 12A Act A1232 012005 12B Act A1232 012005 12C Act A1232 012005 13 Act A814 011992 Act A1232 012005 13A Act A1232 012005 14 Act A1232 012005 14A Act A1232 012005 15 Act A590 011985 Act A675 011987 Act A814 011992 Act A1445 012013 17 Act A450 011985 Act A675 011987 Act A814 011992 Act A1232 012005 Act A1445 012013 17A Act A675 011987 Act A814 011992 Act A1232 012005 18 Act A814 011992 19 Act A450 011985 Act A814 011992 20 Act A450 011985 Act A590 011985 Act A675 011986 Act A814 011992 Act A1232 012005 20A Act A590 011985 Act A814 011985 

172 Laws of Malaysia ACT 4 Section Amending authority In force from para.1(b) from 011992 Act A675 011986 except para.20A(1)(b),(c) 011987 Act A1232 012005 Act A1445 012013 20B Act A590 011985 Act A675 011987 Act A1232 012005 21 Act A450 011985 Act A675 011987 Act A1232 012005 Act A1445 012013 22 Act A590 011985 Act A675 011987 24 Act A814 011992 26 Act A450 011985 Act A814 011971 Act A675 011987 Act A1232 012005 27 Act A675 011987 Act A1232 012005 28 Act A675 011987 29 Act A450 011985 Act A590 011985 Act A675 011987 Act A814 011992 Act A1232 012005 Act A1445 012013 30 Act A675 011986 Act A1232 012005 Act A1445 012013 31 Act A814 011992 Act A981 011997 

Employees’ Social Security 173 Section Amending authority In force from 32 Act A450 011985 32A Act A1232 012005 33A Act A814 011992 34 Act A1232 012005 36 Act A590 011985 Act A675 061982 37 Act A450 011985 42 Act A981 011997 43 Act A675 011987 47 Act A450 011985 49 Act A1232 012005 50 Act A1232 012005 51 Act A675 011987 56 Act A675 011987 57 Act A675 011987 Act A814 011992 57A Act A981 011997 Act A1445 012013 57B Act A1232 012005 57C Act A1232 012005 58 Act A450 011985 Act A675 011987 Act A1508 012016 59 Act A450 011985 Act A981 011997 59A Act A450 011985 

174 Laws of Malaysia ACT 4 Section Amending authority In force from 59B Act A450 011985 Act A675 011987 Act A814 011992 Act A981 011997 59C Act A450 011985 Act A675 011987 Act A981 011997 59D Act A450 011985 Act A675 011987 59E Act A450 011985 Act A675 011987 Act A981 011997 59F Act A450 011985 Act A675 011987 59G Act A450 011985 Act A675 011987 59H Act A450 011985 Act A675 011987 59I Act A450 011985 Act A675 011987 59J Act A450 011985 Act A675 011987 Act A814 011992 59K Act A450 011985 Act A675 011987 59L Act A450 011985 Act A675 011987 59M Act A450 011985 Act A675 011987 59N Act A450 011985 Act A675 011987 Act A814 011992 Act A1232 012005 

Employees’ Social Security 175 Section Amending authority In force from 59O Act A450 011985 Act A675 011987 59P Act A675 011987 59Q Act A814 011992 59R Act A814 011992 59S Act A814 011992 59T Act A814 011992 59U Act A814 011992 59V Act A814 011992 59W Act A814 011992 Act A1232 012005 60 Act A450 011985 Act A675 011987 61 Act A450 011985 Act A675 011987 62 Act A450 011985 Act A675 011987 63 Act A450 011985 Act A675 011987 64 Act A450 011985 Act A675 011987 Act A1232 012005 65 Act A450 011985 Act A675 011987 66 Act A450 011985 Act A675 011987 67 Act A675 011987 68 Act A814 011992 

176 Laws of Malaysia ACT 4 Section Amending authority In force from 69 Act A450 011985 Act A814 011992 71 Act A450 011985 Act A590 011985 Act A675 011987 Act A814 011992 Act A981 011997 Act A1232 012005 Act A1508 012016 72 Act A450 011985 Act A814 011992 para.72(a) from 011985 72A Act A814 011985 Act A1508 012016 74A Act A1508 012016 75 Act A450 011985 Act A675 011987 75A Act A675 011987 Act A814 011992 Act A981 011997 Act A1508 012016 75B Act A814 011992 Act A981 011997 78 Act A450 011985 79 Act A450 011985 Act A675 011987 80 Act A450 011985 Act A675 011987 81 Act A450 011985 82 Act A450 011985 Act A675 011987 83 Act A450 011985 

Employees’ Social Security 177 Section Amending authority In force from Act A814 011992 Act A1232 012005 84 Act A590 011985 86 Act A590 011985 Act A675 011987 93 Act A814 011992 Act A981 011997 94 Act A981 011997 Act A1232 012005 94A Act A675 011987 Act A1232 012005 94B Act A675 011987 94C Act A675 011987 95 Act A675 011987 Act A814 011992 Act A1232 012005 95A Act A1232 012005 Act A1508 012016 96 Act A814 011992 96A Act A590 011985 Act A814 011992 100 Act A814 011992 103 Act A450 011985 103A Act A1232 012005 104 Act A450 011985 Act 478 011992 105 Act A450 011985 Act A675 011987 Act A814 011992 Act A981 011997 

178 Laws of Malaysia ACT 4 Section Amending authority In force from Act A1232 012005 Act A1508 012016 106 Act A450 011985 Act A675 011987 106A Act A675 011987 Act A814 011987 108 Act A450 011985 108A Act A450 011985 Act A1232 012005 110 Act A981 011987 111 Act A814 011992 112 Act A814 011992 112A Act A1445 012013 First Schedule Act A450 011985 Act A590 011985 Act A675 011986 Act A814 011992 Act A1232 012005 Act A1445 012013 Act A1508 012016 P.U. (A) 144/2018 012018 P.U. (A) 351/2018 012019 P.U. (A) 247/2021 012021 Third Schedule Act A590 011985 Act A814 011992 Act A1232 012005 Act A1508 012016 Act A1658 012022 Fourth Schedule Act A450 011985 Act A590 011985 Act A675 011986 para. 8 and 9 from 011987 Act A814 011992 Act 1232 012005 Act A1508 012016 

Employees’ Social Security 179 Section Amending authority In force from Act A1658 012022 Fifth Schedule Act A675 011987 P. U. (A) 32/2008 042008 Sixth Schedule Act A450 011985 Act A675 011987 Act 981 011997 Seventh Schedule Act A450 011985 Act A675 011987 Act A814 011992 Eighth Schedule Act A590 011985 Act A675 011987 Act A814 011992 Act A1232 012005 Act A1445 012013 Ninth Schedule Act A675 011987 Tenth Schedule Act A814 011992 Act A1232 012005