Diplomatic Privileges (Vienna Convention) LAWS OF MALAYSIA RepRint Act 636 DIpLOMAt Ic pr Iv ILege S (vI enn A c Onvent IOn) Act 1966 Incorporating all amendments up to 1 January 2006 published by the CommissioneR of law Revision, malaysia undeR the authoRity of the Revision of laws aCt 968 in CollaboRation with peRCetakan nasional malaysia bhd 2006

 DIpLOMAt Ic pr Iv ILege S (v Ienn A c Onvent IOn) Act 1966 f irst enacted ... … … … … … 966 ( a ct n o. 4 of 966) Revised … … … … … … 004 ( a ct 636 w.e.f.  8 o ctober 004)

3 LAWS OF MALAY SIA Act 636 DIpLOMAt Ic pr Iv ILege S ( v Ienn A c Onvent IOn ) Act 1966 a RRan Gement of se Ctions s ection  . s hort ti tle, commencement and application  . (Omitted ) 3. a pplication of v ienna Convention 3a . a pplication of a ct to specified body or political entity 4. Restriction of privileges and immunities 5. e vidence 6. o rder of the y ang di- pertuan a gong 7. s aving for certain bilateral arrangements 8. Remission of taxes, charges, duties and fees 9. a uthority to hold land in m alaysia Schedule

5Diplomatic Privileges (Vienna Convention) LAWS O F MALAYSIA Act 636 DIpLOMAt Ic pr Iv ILege S ( v Ienn A c Onvent IOn ) Act 1966 a n a ct to amend the law on diplomatic privileges and immunities by giving effect to the v ienna Convention on d iplomatic Relations (signed in 96) and for other matters connected therewith. [9 d ecember 965] Wherea S a rticle 5  of the v ienna Convention on d iplomatic Relations signed in 96 provides: “() t he present Convention shall come into force on the thirtieth day following the date of deposit of the twenty-second instrument of ratification or accession with the s ecretary General of the u nited n ations. () f or each s tate ratifying or acceding to the Convention after the deposit of the twenty-second instrument of ratification or accession, the Convention shall enter into force on the thirtieth day after deposit by such s tate of its instrument of ratification or accession.” 	 a nd 	Wherea S	the said twenty-second instrument of ratification was so deposited by the u nion of s oviet s ocialist Republic on 5 m arch 964 and the Convention therefore came into force on 4 a pril 964: a nd 	Wherea S	m alaysia deposited her instrument of accession on 9 n ovember 965 and therefore in accordance with the said a rticle 5  the Convention came into force as far as m alaysia is concerned on 9 d ecember 965: n o W,	Therefore It IS en Acte D by the parliament of m alaysia as follows: Short title, commencement and application 1. () t his a ct may be cited as the d iplomatic privileges ( v ienna Convention) a ct 966 and shall be deemed to have come into force on 9 d ecember 965.

6 Laws of Malaysia Act 636 () t his a ct shall apply throughout m alaysia. 2. *(Omitted) . Application of v ienna c onvention 3. () s ubject to section 4, the a rticles set out in the s chedule (being a rticles of the v ienna Convention on d iplomatic Relations signed in 96) shall have the force of law in m alaysia and shall for that purpose be construed in accordance with the following provisions of this section. () i n those a rticles— “agents of the receiving s tate” shall be construed as including any police officer and any person exercising a power of entry to any premises under any written law in force in m alaysia; “national of the receiving s tate” shall be construed as meaning a federal citizen. (3) f or the purposes of a rticle 3 , a waiver by the head of a mission of any s tate or any person for the time being performing his functions shall be deemed to be a waiver by that s tate. (4) a rticles 35, 36 and 40 shall be construed as granting any privilege or immunity which they require to be granted. (5) t he references in a rticles 37 and 38 to the extent to which any privileges and immunities are admitted by the receiving s tate and to the additional privileges and immunities that may be granted by the receiving s tate shall be construed as referring respectively to the extent to which any privileges and immunities may be specified by the y ang di- pertuan a gong by order published in the Gazette and to any additional privileges and immunities that may be so specified. Application of Act to specified body or political entity 3A. t he provisions of this a ct shall, to such extent and with such modifications as the y ang di- pertuan a gong may deem necessary, *NOte — t his section refers to the d iplomatic and Consular privileges o rdinance 957 [F.M. 53 of 1957 ] which has been repealed— see section 5 of a ct a 064.

7Diplomatic Privileges (Vienna Convention) apply in respec t of such body or political entity as he may by *order published in the Gazette specify. r estriction of privileges and immunities 4. () i f it appears to the y ang di-pertuan a gong that the privileges and immunities accorded to a mission of m alaysia in the territory of any s tate, or to persons connected with that mission, are less than those conferred by this a ct on the mission of that s tate or on persons connected with that mission, the y ang di- pertuan a gong may by an order published in the Gazette withdraw such of the privileges and immunities so conferred from the mission of that s tate or from such persons connected with it as appears to him to be proper. () a n order under this section shall be disregarded for the purpose of subsection () of part i and subsection () of part ii of the s econd s chedule to the Constitution (relating to citizenship of children of certain persons possessing diplomatic immunity). e vidence 5. if in any proceedings any question arises whether or not any person is entitled to any privilege or immunity under this a ct, a certificate issued by or under the authority of the m inister stating any fact relating to that question shall be conclusive evidence of that fact. Order of the Yang di- pertuan Agong 6. () n o recommendation shall be made to the y ang di- pertuan a gong to make an order under subsection 3(5) unless a draft thereof has been laid before parliament and approved by resolution of each h ouse of parliament; and any statutory instrument containing an *NOte — t he following orders have been made: . d iplomatic privileges ( v ienna Convention) ( palestine l iberation o rganization) o rder 98 — see p.u .(a ) 7/98. . d iplomatic privileges ( v ieena Convention) ( b runei Government a gency) o rder 98 — see p.u .(a ) 93/98.

8 Laws of Malaysia Act 636 order under section 3 shall be subject to annulment in pursuance of a resolution of either h ouse of parliament. () a ny power to make an order conferred by this a ct includes power to vary or revoke an order by a subsequent order. Saving for certain bilateral arrangements 7. () w here any special agreement or arrangement between the Government of any s tate and the Government of m alaysia in force at the commencement of this a ct provides for extending— (a) such immunity from jurisdiction and from arrest or detention, and such inviolability of residence, as are conferred by this a ct on a diplomatic agent; or (b) such exemption from customs duties, taxes and related charges as is conferred by this a ct in respect of articles for the personal use of a diplomatic agent, to any class of person, or to articles for the personal use of any class of person, connected with the mission of that s tate, that immunity and inviolability or exemption shall so extend, so long as that agreement or arrangement continues in force. () t he m inister shall publish in the Gazette a notice specifying the s tates with which and the classes of person with respect to which such an agreement or arrangement as is mentioned in subsection ( ) is in force and whether its effect is as mentioned in paragraph (a) or (b) of that subsection, and shall whenever necessary amend the notice by a further such notice; and the notice shall be conclusive evidence of the agreement or arrangement and the classes of person with respect to which it is in force. r emission of taxes, charges, duties and fees 8. t he y ang di- pertuan a gong may provide that any tax, charge, duty or fee, imposed or collected under any written law in force in m alaysia or in any constituent s tate in m alaysia or any part thereof by the Government of m alaysia or of any such constituent s tate or by any m unicipality, t own b oard or other public authority in m alaysia, and payable by the Government of any s tate or by 

9Diplomatic Privileges (Vienna Convention) a head of mission or by a member of the diplomatic staff of the mission of that s tate, shall be remitted when, in the opinion of the y ang di- pertuan a gong, such remission should be granted by reason of the treatment accorded to the Government of m alaysia by that s tate. Authority to hold land in Malaysia 9. () n otwithstanding the provisions of any written law to the contrary it shall be lawful for land in any part of m alaysia or any interest in such land to be granted, alienated, leased or transferred to or owned or held by— (a) any s tate— (i) for the purposes of the residence or offices of the head of mission of that s tate or of his diplomatic staff; or (ii) for such other diplomatic purposes as may be approved by the m inister; or (b) any s tate that is authorized or entitled to own or hold land or any interest in land in m alaysia under any treaty, convention or agreement to which m alaysia is a party, for any purpose specified in such treaty, convention or agreement. () w here by virtue of subsection ( ), it is lawful for land or an interest in land to be granted, alienated, leased or transferred to or owned or held by any s tate, such land or interest may be granted, alienated, leased or transferred to or owned or held by that s tate in its own name or on its behalf to or by any person nominated for the purposes of this subsection either generally or in a particular case by writing addressed to the m inister by or on behalf of that s tate and that s tate or person, as the case may be, shall be registered accordingly as proprietor, lessee or otherwise, as the case may require, in any register kept under the provisions of the n ational l and Code [ Act 56 of 196 5], the l and o rdinance of s abah [ Sabah Cap. 68 ] or the l and Code of s arawak [ Sarawak Cap. 81 ], as the case may be. (3) f or the purposes of subsection ( ), a s tate may nominate a body corporate incorporated by or under the laws of m alaysia or of that s tate or an individual person nominated by name or by the title of any office held by him in the government of that s tate 

0 Laws of Malaysia Act 636 and where any person is nominated by the title of an office any right, power or obligation to which by virtue of his nomination he may be entitled or liable at the date of his vacating his office shall be deemed to pass to or be imposed on his successors for the time being in such office in all respects as if the holder of such office had been a corporation sole. (4) a nomination made under subsection ( ) may at any time be cancelled and a fresh nomination made in the manner provided by that subsection and in that event any right, power or obligation to which by virtue of his nomination the person formerly nominated was at the date of the cancellation of his nomination entitled or liable shall be transferred to the person last nominated in such manner as may be provided by rules made under subsection (6). (5) f or the purpose of any dealing in any land or interest in any land vested in the name of a s tate, any person authorized for the purposes of this subsection either generally or in any particular case by writing addressed to the m inister by or on behalf of that s tate may, by virtue of such authorization, execute all or any instruments and do any other act or thing for giving effect to any dealing with such land on behalf of that s tate in the same manner and to the like extent as if such person had been authorized thereto by a valid power of attorney duly delivered under the provisions of the n ational l and Code, the l and o rdinance of s abah or the l and Code of s arawak, as the case may be. (6) t he y ang di- pertuan a gong may make rules for the purpose of carrying this section into effect.

Diplomatic Privileges (Vienna Convention) Schedule [s ection 3] a Rti Cles of the vienna C onvention on diplomati C Relations ( 96) havin G the fo RCe of law in malaysia Article 1 f or the purpose of the present Convention, the following expressions shall have the meanings hereunder assigned to them: (a) the “head of the mission” is the person charged by the sending s tate with the duty of acting in that capacity; (b) the “members of the mission” are the head of the mission and the members of the staff of the mission; (c) the “members of the staff of the mission” are the members of the diplomatic staff, of the administrative and technical staff and of the service staff of the mission; (d) the “members of the diplomatic staff” are the members of the staff of the mission having diplomatic rank; (e) a “diplomatic agent” is the head of the mission or a member of the diplomatic staff of the mission; (f) the “members of the administrative and technical staff” are the members of the staff of the mission employed in the administrative and technical service of the mission; (g) the “members of the service staff” are the members of the staff of the mission, in the domestic service of the mission; (h) a “private servant” is a person who is in the domestic service of a member of the mission and who is not an employee of the sending s tate; (i) the “premises of the mission” are the buildings or parts of buildings and the land ancillary thereto, irrespective of ownership, used for the purposes of the mission including the residence of the head of the mission. Article 22 . t he premises of the mission shall be inviolable. t he agents of the receiving s tate may not enter them, except with the consent of the head of the mission. . t he receiving s tate is under a special duty to take all appropriate steps to protect the premises of the mission against any intrusion or damage and to prevent any disturbance of the peace of the mission or impairment of its dignity.

 Laws of Malaysia Act 636 3. t he premises of the mission, their furnishings and other property thereon and the means of transport of the mission shall be immune from search, requisition, attachment or execution. Article 23 . t he sending s tate and the head of the mission shall be exempt from all national, regional or municipal dues and taxes in respect of the premises of the mission, whether owned or leased, other than such as represent payment for specific services rendered. . t he exemption from taxation referred to in this a rticle shall not apply to such dues and taxes payable under the law of the receiving s tate by persons contracting with the sending s tate or the head of the mission. Article 24 t he archives and documents of the mission shall be inviolable at any time and wherever they may be. Article 27 . t he receiving s tate shall permit and protect free communication on the part of the mission for all official purposes. in communicating with the Government and other missions and consulates of the sending s tate, wherever situated, the mission may employ all appropriate means, including diplomatic couriers and messages in code or cipher. h owever, the mission may install and use a wireless transmitter only with the consent of the receiving s tate. . t he official correspondence of the mission shall be inviolable. o fficial correspondence means all correspondence relating to the mission and its functions. 3. t he diplomatic bag shall not be opened or detained. 4. t he packages constituting the diplomatic bag must bear visible external marks of their character and may contain only diplomatic documents or articles intended for official use. 5. t he diplomatic courier, who shall be provided with an official document indicating his status and the number of packages constituting the diplomatic bag, shall be protected by the receiving s tate in the performance of his functions. h e shall enjoy personal inviolability and shall not be liable to any form of arrest or detention. 6. t he sending s tate or the mission may designate diplomatic couriers ad hoc. in such cases the provisions of paragraph 5 of this a rticle shall also apply, except that the immunities therein mentioned shall cease to apply when such a courier has delivered to the consignee the diplomatic bag in his charge.

3Diplomatic Privileges (Vienna Convention) 7. a diplomatic bag may be entrusted to the captain of a commercial aircraft scheduled to lan d at an authorized port of entry. h e shall be provided with an official document indicating the number of packages constituting the bag but he shall not be considered to be a diplomatic courier. t he mission may send one of its members to take possession of the diplomatic bag directly and freely from the captain of the aircraft. Article 28 t he fees and charges levied by the mission in the course of its official duties shall be exempt from all dues and taxes. Article 29 t he person of a diplomatic agent shall be inviolable. h e shall not be liable to any form of arrest or detention. t he receiving s tate shall treat him with due respect and shall take all appropriate steps to prevent any attack on his person, freedom or dignity. Article 30 . t he private residence of a diplomatic agent shall enjoy the same inviolability and protection as the premises of the mission. . h is papers, correspondence and, except as provided in paragraph 3 of a rticle 3 , his property, shall likewise enjoy inviolability. Article 31 . a diplomatic agent shall enjoy immunity from the criminal jurisdiction of the receiving s tate. h e shall also enjoy immunity from its civil and administrative jurisdiction, except in the case of— (a) a real action relating to private immovable property situated in the territory of the receiving s tate, unless he holds it on behalf of the sending s tate for the purposes of the mission; (b) an action relating to succession in which the diplomatic agent is involved as executor, administrator, heir or legatee as a private person and not on behalf of the sending s tate; (c) an action relating to any professional or commercial activity exercised by the diplomatic agent in the receiving s tate outside his official functions. . a diplomatic agent is not obliged to give evidence as a witness. 3. n o measures of execution may be taken in respect of a diplomatic agent except in the cas es coming under subparagraphs (a),(b) and (c) of paragraph  

4 Laws of Malaysia Act 636 of this a rticle, and provided that the measures concerned can be taken without infringing the inviolability of his person or of his residence. 4. t he immunity of a diplomatic agent from the jurisdiction of the receiving s tate does not exempt him from the jurisdiction of the sending s tate. Article 32 . t he immunity from jurisdiction of diplomatic agents and of persons enjoying immunity under a rticle 37 may be waived by the sending s tate. . t he waiver must always be express. 3. t he initiation of proceedings by a diplomatic agent or by a person enjoying immunity from jurisdiction under a rticle 37 shall preclude him from invoking immunity from jurisdiction in respect of any counter-claim directly connected with the principal claim. 4. w aiver of immunity from jurisdiction in respect of civil or administrative proceedings shall not be held to imply waiver of immunity in respect of the execution of the judgment, for which a separate waiver shall be necessary. Article 33 . s ubject to paragraph 3 of this a rticle, a diplomatic agent shall with respect to services rendered for the sending s tate be exempt from social security provisions which may be in force in the receiving s tate. . t he exemption provided for in paragraph  of this a rticle shall also apply to private servants who are in the sole employ of a diplomatic agent, on condition: (a) that they are not nationals of or permanently resident in the receiving s tate; and (b) that they are covered by the social security provisions which may be in force in the sending s tate or a third s tate. 3. a diplomatic agent who employs persons to whom the exemption provided for in paragraph  of this a rticle does not apply shall observe the obligations which the social security provisions of the receiving s tate impose upon employers. 4. t he exemption provided for in paragraphs  and  of this a rticle shall not preclude voluntary participation in the social security system of the receiving s tate provided that such participation is permitted by that s tate. 5. t he provisions of this a rticle shall not affect bilateral or multilateral agreements concerning social security concluded previously and shall not prevent the conclusion of such agreements in the future.

5Diplomatic Privileges (Vienna Convention) Article 34 a diplomatic agent shall be exempt from all dues and taxes, personal or real, national, regional or municipal, except: (a) indirect taxes of a kind which are normally incorporated in the price of goods or services; (b) dues and taxes on private immovable property situated in the territory of the receiving s tate, unless he holds it on behalf of the sending s tate for the purposes of the mission; (c) estate, succession or inheritance duties levied by the receiving s tate, subject to paragraph 4 of a rticle 39; (d) dues and taxes on private income having its source in the receiving s tate and capital taxes on investments made in commercial undertakings in the receiving s tate; (e) charges levied for specific services rendered; (f) registration, court or record fees, mortgage dues and stamp duty, with respect to immovable property, subject to a rticle 3. A rticle 35 t he receiving s tate shall exempt diplomatic agents from all personal services, from all public service of any kind whatsoever, and from military obligations such as those connected with requisitioning, military contributions and billeting. Article 36 . t he receiving s tate shall, in accordance with such laws and regulations as it may adopt, permit entry of and grant exemption from all customs duties, taxes, and related charges other than charges for storage, cartage and similar services, on: (a) articles for the official use of the mission; (b) articles for the personal use of a diplomatic agent or members of his family forming part of his household, including articles intended for his establishment. . t he personal baggage of a diplomatic agent shall be exempt from inspection, unless there are serious grounds for presuming that it contains articles not covered by the exemptions mentioned in paragraph  of this a rticle, or articles the import or export of which is prohibited by the law or controlled by the quarantine regulations of the receiving s tate. s uch inspection shall be conducted only in the presence of the diplomatic agent or of his authorized representative.

6 Laws of Malaysia Act 636 Article 37 . t he members of the family of a diplomatic agent forming part of his household shall, if they are not nationals of the receiving s tate, enjoy the privileges and immunities specified in a rticles 9 to 36. . m embers of the administrative and technical staff of the mission, together with members of their families forming part of their respective households, shall, if they are not nationals of or permanently resident in the receiving s tate, enjoy the privileges and immunities specified in a rticles 9 to 35, except that the immunity from civil and administrative jurisdiction of the receiving s tate specified in paragraph  of a rticle 3  shall not extend to acts performed outside the course of their duties. t hey shall also enjoy the privileges specified in a rticle 36, paragraph , in respect of articles imported at the time of first installation. 3. m embers of the service staff of the mission who are not nationals of or permanently resident in the receiving s tate shall enjoy immunity in respect of acts performed in the course of their duties, exemption from dues and taxes and on the emoluments they receive by reason of their employment and the exemption contained in a rticle 33. 4. p rivate servants of members of the mission shall, if they are not nationals of or permanently resident in the receiving s tate, be exempt from dues and taxes on the emoluments they receive by reason of their employment. in other respects, they may enjoy privileges and immunities only to the extent admitted by the receiving s tate. h owever, the receiving s tate must exercise its jurisdiction over those persons in such a manner as not to interfere unduly with the performance of the functions of the mission. Article 38 . e xcept insofar as additional privileges and immunities may be granted by the receiving s tate, a diplomatic agent who is a national of or permanently resident in that s tate shall enjoy only immunity from jurisdiction, and inviolability, in respect of official acts performed in the exercise of his functions. . o ther members of the staff of the mission and private servants who are nationals of or permanently resident in the receiving s tate shall enjoy privileges and immunities only to the extent admitted by the receiving s tate. h owever, the receiving s tate must exercise its jurisdiction over those persons in such a manner as not to interfere unduly with the performance of the functions of the mission. Article 39 . e very person entitled to privileges and immunities shall enjoy them from the moment he enters the territory of the receiving s tate on proceeding to take up his post or, if already in its territory, from the moment when his appointment is notified to the m inistry for f oreign a ffairs or such other ministry as may be agreed.

7Diplomatic Privileges (Vienna Convention) . w hen the functions of a person enjoying privileges and immunities have come to an end, such privileges and immunities shall normally cease at the moment when he leaves the country, or on expiry of a reasonable period in which to do so, but shall subsist until that time, even in case of armed conflict. h owever, with respect to acts performed by such a person in the exercise of his functions as a member of the mission, immunity shall continue to subsist. 3. i n case of the death of a member of the mission, the members of his family shall continue to enjoy the privileges and immunities to which they are entitled until the expiry of a reasonable period in which to leave the country. 4. i n the event of the death of a member of the mission not a national of or permanently resident in the receiving s tate or a member of his family forming part of his household, the receiving s tate shall permit the withdrawal of the movable property of the deceased, with the exception of any property acquired in the country the export of which was prohibited at the time of his death. e state, succession and inheritance duties shall not be levied on movable property the presence of which in the receiving s tate was due solely to the presence there of the deceased as a member of the mission or as a member of the family of a member of the mission. Article 40 . i f a diplomatic agent passes through or is in the territory of a third s tate, which has granted him a passport visa if such visa was necessary, while proceeding to take up or to return to his post, or when returning to his own country, the third s tate shall accord him inviolability and such other immunities as may be required to ensure his transit or return. t he same shall apply in the case of any members of his family enjoying privileges or immunities who are accompanying the diplomatic agent, or travelling separately to join him or to return to their country. . i n circumstances similar to those specified in paragraph  of this a rticle, third s tates shall not hinder the passage of members of the administrative and technical or service staff of a mission, and of members of their families, through their territories. 3. t hird s tates shall accord to official correspondence and other official communications in transit, including messages in code or cipher, the same freedom and protection as is accorded by the receiving s tate. t hey shall accord to diplomatic couriers, who have been granted a passport visa if such visa was necessary, and diplomatic bags in transit the same inviolability and protection as the receiving s tate is bound to accord. 4. t he obligations of third s tates under paragraphs ,  and 3 of this a rticle shall also apply to the persons mentioned respectively in those paragraphs, and to official communications and diplomatic bags, whose presence in the territory of the third s tate is due to force majeure .

8 Laws of Malaysia Act 636 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 636 DIpLOMAt Ic pr Iv ILege S ( v Ienn A c Onvent IOn ) Act 1966 list of amendments a mending law s hort title in force from a ct a 534 d iplomatic privileges ( v ienna  3-0-98 Convention) ( a mendment) a ct 98 a ct a 064 d iplomatic privileges ( v ienna 03 999 Convention) ( a mendment) a ct 999

9Diplomatic Privileges (Vienna Convention) LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 636 DIpLOMAt Ic pr Iv ILege S ( v Ienn A c Onvent IOn ) Act 1966 list of se Ctions amended s ection a mending authority in force from 3 a ct a 064 03 999 3a a ct a 534 3-0-98 4 a ct a 064 03 999 8 a ct a 064 03 999 9 a ct a 064 03 999