LAWS OF MALAYSIA ONLINE VERSION OF UPDATED TEXT OF REPRINT Act 326 PRINTING OF QUR’ANIC TEXTS ACT 1986 As at 1 September 2023 This text is ONLY AN UPDATED TEXT of the Printing of Qur’anic Texts Act 1986 by the Attorney General’s Chambers. Unless and until reprinted pursuant to the powers of the Commissioner of Law Revision under subsection 14(1) of the Revision of Laws Act 1968 [Act 1], this text is NOT AN AUTHENTIC TEXT. 

2 PRINTING OF QUR’ANIC TEXTS ACT 1986 Date of Royal Assent … … … ... 7 May 1986 Date of publication in the Gazette … … … ... 15 May 1986 Latest amendment made by Act A1696 which came into operation on … … … ... 1 September 2023 PREVIOUS REPRINT First Reprint … … … … 2001 Second Reprint … … … 2006 

3 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 326 PRINTING OF QUR’ANIC TEXTS ACT 1986 ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS Section 1. Short title and commencement 2. Interpretation 3. The Lembaga Pengawalan dan Pelesenan Pencetakan Al-Qur’an 3A. Alternate member 4. Extension of executive authority of States 5. Licence to print, etc., Qur’anic texts 6. Submission of final proof or original copy of Qur’anic text to the Lembaga 7. Imported Qur’anic texts 7A. Withholding delivery of imported Qur’anic text which is not certified 7B. Witholding delivery of imported Qur’anic material 8. Qur’anic texts to bear certain information 9. Qur’anic texts to be printed, as regards Qur’anic Verses, exactly as certified 10. One copy of Qur’anic text to be delivered to Lembaga and another kept 11. Waste material from printing of Qur’anic texts or Qur’anic material 12. Certifying of Qur’anic texts printed before commencement of Act 13. Control of sale, distribution and publication of Qur’anic texts 14. Printing, distribution and possession of Qur’anic texts or Qur’anic material containing errors 14A. Power to investigate 15. Forfeiture and disposal of Qur’anic texts or Qur’anic material 16. Mufti’s certificate to be conclusive proof 

4 Undang-Undang Malaysia Act 326 Section 17. Power to seize, detain and search for unlawful Qur’anic texts or Qur’anic material 18. Examination and disposal of Qur’anic texts or Qur’anic material 19. Barring of action 20. Sanction for prosecution 20A. Compounding of offences 21. Presumption as to printer, etc. 21A. Public servant 21B. Application of Public Authorities Protection Act 1948 22. Corporations and firms 23. Liability of partners, directors, employees, etc. 24. Exemption 25. Regulations 26. Power to issue guidelines or directives 

5 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 326 PRINTING OF QUR’ANIC TEXTS ACT 1986 An Act to regulate the printing, importation, sale, publication and distribution of Qur’anic texts and Qur’anic material and to provide for related matters. [1 January 1987, P.U. (B) 763/1986] BE IT ENACTED by the Seri Paduka Baginda Yang di -Pertuan Agong with the advice and consent of the Dewan Negara and Dewan Rakyat in Parliament assembled, and by the authority of the same, as follows: Short title and commencement 1. This Act may be cited as the Printing of Qur’anic Texts Act 1986 and shall come into force on a date to be appointed by the Minister by notification in the Gazette. Interpretation 2. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires — “correct” in respect of Qur ’anic Verses includes being complete and correctly arranged, not only in themselves but also in the context of the Qur’anic text in question as a whole; and “incorrect” and “error” shall be construed accordingly; “document” means any matter expressed, des cribed, or howsoever represented, upon any substance, material, thing or article, including any matter embodied in a disc, tape, film, sound track or other device whatsoever, by means of— 

6 Laws of Malaysia ACT 326 (a) letters, figures, marks, symbols, signals, signs, or other forms of expression, description, or representation whatsoever; (b) any visual recording (whether of still or moving images); (c) any sound recording, or any electronic, magnetic, mechanical or other recording whatsoever and howsoever made, or any sounds, electronic impuls es, or other data whatsoever; (d) a recording, or transmission, over a distance of any matter by any, or any combination, of the means mentioned in paragraph (a), (b) or (c), or by more than one of the means mentioned in paragraphs (a), (b), (c) and (d), intended to be used or which may be used for the purpose of expressing, describing, or howsoever representing, that matter; “Islamic Religious Council” means the authority, by whatever name called, established by or under any written law for the purpose, solely or besides other purposes, of advising the head of the religion of Islam in a State or Federal Territory in matters relating to the religion of Islam; “Lembaga” means the Lembaga Pengawalan dan Pelesenan Pencetakan Al-Qur’an established under subsection 3(1); “licence” means a licence issued under section 5; “Minister” and “Ministry” mean the Minister and Ministry responsible for the licensing of printing presses; “Mufti” means an official appointed to act as a Mufti for any State or Federal Territory under any written law relating to the administration of Islamic law; “printing” and expressions referring to printing include writing, lithography, typewriting, photography and other modes of representing or reproducing words or objects in visible form; 

Printing of Qur’anic Texts 7 “Qur’anic material” means any document containing any Qur’anic Verse, whether in Arabic writing or Braille, other than a “Qur’anic text’, as defined in this section; “Qur’anic text” means any document containing the complete Arabic text of the Qur’an or any part thereof , whether in Arabic writing or Braille, which contains one juzu’ or more with or without translation, or interpretation, as the case may be; “Qur’anic Verse” includes any part of any Qur’anic Verse in Arabic. The Lembaga Pengawalan dan Pelesenan Pencetakan Al-Qur’an 3. (1) For the purposes of this Act, there shall be a board to be known as the Lembaga Pengawalan dan Pelesenan Pencetakan Al- Qur’an. (2) The Lembaga shall consist of fifteen members, thirteen representing the thirteen Sta tes in Malaysia, one representing the Federal Territories of Kuala Lumpur , Labuan and Putrajaya , and one being the Director General of the Department of Islamic Development Malaysia of the Prime Minister’s Department. (3) The members for the States of Mal acca, Penang, Sabah and Sarawak and for the Fede ral Territories of Kuala Lumpur , Labuan and Putrajaya shall be appointed by the Yang di -Pertuan Agong and the members for the other States shall be appointed by the respective Rulers. (4) Each appointed memb er shall serve for a term not exceeding three years and shall be eligible for reappointment. (4A) A member of the Lembaga may, at any time, resign from his office by giving a written notice to the Lembaga and the Lembaga shall obtain the consent of the Ya ng di -Pertuan Agong or the respective Rulers, as the case may be. 

8 Laws of Malaysia ACT 326 (5) The Lembaga shall, from time to time, elect a Chairman and a Deputy Chairman from among its members for such term as the Lembaga may decide. (6) The first Chairman and Deputy Chairman shall be elected at the first meeting of the Lembaga after the commencement of this Act, which meeting shall be convened by the Secretary General of the Ministry and chaired by him until the Chairman and Deputy Chairman are elected. (7) Subject to this se ction, the Lembaga shall regulate its own procedure. (8) The quorum for any meeting of the Lembaga shall be seven members present. (9) In exercising its functions under this Act, the Lembaga shall be subject to the control, supervision and direction of the Minister. (10) The Ministry shall provide the Lembaga with such staff, funds and other facilities as are necessary to enable it to carry out its functions under this Act. Alternate member 3A. (1) The Yang di-Pertuan Agong or the respective Rulers ma y, in respect of each member appointed under subsection (3), appoint an alternate member who may attend any meeting of the Lembaga when the member whom he is an alternate member is for any reason unable to attend. (2) When attending the meeting of the Lem baga, an alternate member shall, for all purposes, be deemed to be a member of the Lembaga. (3) An alternate member may, at any time, resign from his office by giving a written notice to the Lembaga and the Lembaga shall obtain the consent of the Yang di -Pertuan Agong or the respective Rulers, as the case may be. 

Printing of Qur’anic Texts 9 (4) An alternate member shall, unless he sooner resigns under subsection (3) or his appointment is sooner revoked, cease to be an alternate member when the member in respect of whom he is an alternate member ceases to be a member of the Lembaga. Extension of executive authority of States 4. For the avoidance of doubt it is hereby declared— (a) that where it appears, directly or by implication, that the executive authority of a State is extended to the administration of any provision of this Act, such extension is provided by virtue of Clause (4) of Article 80 of the Federal Constitution; and (b) that the conferment of powers and the imposition of duties made by this Act on any authority of the State i s made by virtue of the said Article for the purpose of such extension. Licence to print, etc., Qur’anic texts 5. (1) No person shall print or assist in printing, or publish or assist in publishing, any Qur’anic text without a licence issued by the Lembaga, which licence the Lembaga may, at its absolute discretion, grant, refuse or revoke, or grant subject to conditions to be endorsed thereon. (2) A licence, once issued, shall continue to remain in force until revoked. (3) Without prejudice to subsecti on (4), where the Lembaga is satisfied that any person who has been issued with a licence has acted in contravention of this Act or any condition of the licence, it may, after giving such person an opportunity to show cause, revoke or suspend the licence without assigning any reason. (4) Where a person to whom a licence has been issued is charged with any offence under this Act or any regulations made thereunder, 

10 Laws of Malaysia ACT 326 the licence issued to him shall forthwith be deemed suspended and upon his being found guilty of such offence, the court shall order revocation of the licence. (5) A licence issued under this section shall be in addition to any licence issued under any other written law relating to the licensing of printing presses. (6) Any person who contravenes the provision of subsection (1) commits an offence and is liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding *fifty thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding five years or to both. (7) Any person who fails to comply with or breaches any condition attached to the licence issued under this section commits an offence and is liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding **fifty thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding five years or to both. Submission of final proof or origi nal copy of Qur’anic text to the Lembaga 6. (1) No person shall print or publish any Qur’anic text unless the final proof or original copy of the Qur’anic text, as the case may be, has been submitted to the Lembaga and the Lembaga has certified that the Qur’anic Verses contained in the final proof or original copy are correct and in accordance with the writing method determined by the Lembaga, whether as originally submitted or as corrected by the Lembaga. (2) The certificate issued under subsection (1) s hall bear an appropriate reference number and shall specify the corrections, if any, made by the Lembaga to or in respect of the Qur’anic text. *NOTE—Previously “ ten thousand ringgit or to imprisonment not exceeding three years” –see paragraph 5(a) Printing of Qur’anic Texts (Amendment) Act 2023 [Act A1696]. **NOTE—Previously “ five thousand ringgit or to imprisonment not exceeding one year ”–see paragraph 5(b) Printing of Qur’anic Texts (Amendment) Act 2023 [Act A1696]. 

Printing of Qur’anic Texts 11 (3) Any person who contravenes the provision of subsection (1) commits an offence and is liable on conviction t o a fine not exceeding *fifty thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding five years or to both. Imported Qur’anic texts 7. (1) No person shall import for sale or distribution any Qur’anic text printed outside Malaysia unless prior to importation one copy has been submitted to the Lembaga with a statutory declaration that he intends to import other Qur’anic texts which are identical in every particular to the one submitted and the Lembaga has certified in writing that the Qur’anic Verses contained therein are correct and in accordance with the writing method determined by the Lembaga. (2) Any person who contravenes the provision of subsection (1) commits an offence and is liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding **fifty thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding five years or to both. Withholding delivery of imported Qur’anic text which is not certified 7A. (1) Any police officer not below the rank of Inspector or any public officer authorized in writing by the Is lamic Religious Council of any State or Federal Territory, may withhold the delivery of any imported Qur’anic text which is not certified in writing by the Lembaga under section 7. (2) Any Qur’anic text withheld under subsection (1) shall, as soon as practicable, be delivered to the Lembaga and be examined by the Lembaga. (3) Where the Lembaga certify that the Qur’anic text— *NOTE—Previously “ ten thousand ringgit or to imprisonment not exceeding three years ”–see paragraph 6(b) Printing of Qur’anic Texts (Amendment) Act 2023 [Act A1696]. **NOTE—Previously “ ten thousand ringgit or to imprisonment not exceeding three years ”–see paragraph 7(b) Printing of Qur’anic Texts (Amendment) Act 2023 [Act A1696]. 

12 Laws of Malaysia ACT 326 (a) is correct and in accordance with the writing method determined by the Lembaga in respect of the Qur’anic Verses contained therein , the Lembaga shall allow the importation subject to the certification under section 7 and give notice in writing to the person from whom the Qur’anic text was withheld requiring the person to claim or collect the Qur’anic text not later than six months fr om the date of the notice; or (b) contains any error or is not in accordance with the writing method determined by the Lembaga in respect of the Qur’anic Verses contained therein, the Lembaga shall prohibit the importation and give notice in writing to the person from whom the Qur’anic text was withheld requiring the person to return the Qur’anic text to the sender outside Malaysia not later than three months from the date of the notice. (4) Where the person from whom the Qur’anic text was withheld fails to c laim or collect the Qur’anic text within six months from the date of the notice under paragraph (3) (a) or fails to return the Qur’anic text to the sender outside Malaysia within three months from the date of the notice under paragraph (3 )(b), as the case m ay be, the Qur’anic text shall be disposed of in any manner the Lembaga thinks fit. Withholding delivery of imported Qur’anic material 7B. (1) Any police officer not below the rank of Inspector or any public officer authorized in writing by the Islamic Religious Council of any State or Federal Territory, may withhold the delivery of any imported Qur’anic material if he has reasonable cause to believe that it contains any error or it is not in accordance with the writing method determined by the Lembaga i n respect of the Qur’anic Verses contained in the Qur’anic material. (2) Any Qur’anic material withheld under subsection (1) shall, as soon as practicable, be delivered to the Lembaga and be examined by the Lembaga. 

Printing of Qur’anic Texts 13 (3) Where the Lembaga certify that the Qur’anic material— (a) is correct and in accordance with the writing method determined by the Lembaga in respect of the Qur’anic Verses contained therein, the Lembaga shall allow the importation and give notice in writing to the person from whom the Qur’anic material was withheld requiring the person to claim or collect the Qur’anic material not later than six months from the date of the notice; or (b) contains any error or is not in accordance with the writing method determined by the Lembaga in respect of the Qur’anic Verses contained therein, the Lembaga shall prohibit the importation and give notice in writing to the person from whom the Qur’anic material was withheld requiring the person to return the Qur’anic material to the sender outside Malaysia not later than three months of the date of the notice. (4) Where the person from whom the Qur’anic material was withheld fails to claim or collect the Qur’anic material within six months from the date of the notice under paragraph (3) (a) or fails to return the Qur ’anic material to the sender outside Malaysia within three months of the notice under paragraph (3)(b), as the case may be, the Qur’anic material shall be disposed of in any manner as the Lembaga thinks fit. Qur’anic texts to bear certain information 8. (1) Every Qur’anic text which is printed or published in Malaysia or imported into Malaysia shall bear conspicuously on the first or last printed leaf thereof, or in the case of a recorded text, at a conspicuous part of the text, the following information: (a) the name and address of its printer and publisher, or in the case of a recorded text, the person responsible for the making of the recording and publication of the recorded text; 

14 Laws of Malaysia ACT 326 (b) in the case of an imported Qur’anic text, the name and address of its importer; (c) the address of the place where it was printed, recorded or published; (d) a statement to the effect that the Qur’anic Verses contained in the text have been certified to be correct by the Lembaga in accordance with section 6 or 7; and (e) the reference number of the relevant certificate. (2) No person shall print or assist in printing, or publish or assist in publishing, any Qur’anic text which does not comply with the requirements of subsection (1) or in which any information or statement required to be borne under subsection (1) is false. (3) Any person who contravenes the provision of subsection (2) commits an offence and is liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding *fifty thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding five years or to both. Qur’anic texts to be printed, as regards Qur’anic Verses, exactly as certified 9. (1) No person shall print or publish any Qur’anic text which differs, as regards the Qur’anic Verses contained therein, from the corresponding Verses as certified to be correct by the Lembaga on the final proof of the Qur’anic text under section 6. (2) Any person who contravenes the provision of subsection (1) commits an offence and is liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding **fifty thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding five years or to both. *NOTE—Previously “ twenty thousand ringgit ”–see paragraph 9( a) Printing of Qur’anic Texts (Amendment) Act 2023 [Act A1696]. **NOTE—Previously “ twenty thousand ringgit ”–see paragraph 10( a) Printing of Qur’anic Texts (Amendment) Act 2023 [Act A1696]. 

Printing of Qur’anic Texts 15 One copy of Qur’anic text to be delivered to Lembaga and another kept 10. (1) Every person who prints any Qur’anic text shall, as soon as possible, deliver one copy thereof to the Lembaga and shall keep one copy thereof. (2) Any person who fails to comply with the provision of subsection (1) commits an offence and is liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding *fifty thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding five years or to both. Waste material from printing of Qur’anic texts or Qur’anic material 11. (1) Any person who prints any Qur’anic text or Qur’anic material shall take all necessary steps to ensure that any waste material on which there is printed or there appears any Q ur’anic Verse is immediately destroyed by burning in an enclosed place to which the public have no access and does not leave the printing premises by any means, except when being removed to a place to be destroyed as aforesaid. (2) Except as provided in s ubsection (1), no person shall remove from any printing, premises, or cause, directly or by his negligence, or permit to be so removed, any waste material on which there is printed or there appears any Qur’anic Verse. (3) Any person who contravenes or fai ls to comply with the provision of subsection (1) or (2) commits an offence and is liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding **fifty thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding five years or to both. *NOTE—Previously “ two thousand ringgit or to imprisonment not exceeding six months ”–see paragraph 11(b) Printing of Qur’anic Texts (Amendment) Act 2023 [Act A1696]. **NOTE—Previously “ five thousand ringgit or to imprisonment not exceeding one year ”–see section 12 Printing of Qur’anic Texts (Amendment) Act 2023 [Act A1696]. 

16 Laws of Malaysia ACT 326 Certifying of Qur’anic texts printed before commencement of Act 12. (1) Any person intending to sell, distribute or publish any Qur’anic text printed before the commencement of this Act shall submit the Qur’anic text to the Lembaga for it to be examined by the Lembaga and for the Lembaga to certify that the Qur’anic Verses contained therein are correct. (2) As soon as possible after receiving a Qur’anic text under subsection (1), the Lembaga shall examine the Qur’anic text and determine whether the Qur’anic Verses contained therein are correct. (3) If the Lembaga is satisfied that the Qur’anic Verses contained in the Qur’anic text are correct, the Lembaga shall so certify and shall cause a certificate to that effect to be conspicuously affixed on the first or last printed leaf thereof or , in the case of a recorded text, at a conspicuous part of the text. (4) The Lembaga may direct such corrections as it considers necessary to be made to the Qur’anic text before certifying under subsection (3). (5) If the Lembaga finds any error in the Q ur’anic Verses contained in the Qur’anic text and that it is not suitable to direct correction under subsection (4), the Lembaga shall cause the Qur’anic text to be destroyed in such manner as it deems proper and shall cause the person concerned to be info rmed of the matter and of the errors justifying the destruction. Control of sale, distribution and publication of Qur’anic texts 13. (1) As from a date to be appointed by the Minister by notification in the Gazette, which date shall not be earlier than six months from the date of publication of the notification, no person shall sell, offer for sale, distribute or publish, or have in his possession, custody or control for the purpose of sale or distribution, any Qur’anic text, unless it bears conspicuousl y on the first or last printed leaf thereof or, in the case of a recorded text, at a conspicuous part of the text, the information specified in subsection 8(1) or the 

Printing of Qur’anic Texts 17 certificate specified in subsection 12(3) and the information or certificate is genuine in respect of it. (2) Any person who contravenes of subsection (1) commits an offence and is liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding *fifty thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding five years or to both. Printing, distribution a nd possession of Qur’anic texts or Qur’anic material containing errors 14. (1) No person shall print, publish, import, sell, offer for sale, distribute, or has in his possession, custody or control for the purpose of sale or distribution, any Qur’anic te xt or Qur’anic material which contains any error or is not in accordance with the writing method determined by the Lembaga in respect of the Qur’anic Verses contained in the Qur’anic text or Qur’anic material. (2) Any person who contravenes the provision of subsection (1) commits an offence and is liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding **fifty thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding five years or to both. Power to investigate 14A. (1) Any police officer not below the rank of I nspector or any public officer authorized in writing by the Islamic Religious Council of any State or Federal Territory, may investigate any offence under this Act. (2) For the purposes of this Act, any public officer authorized in writing by the Islamic Religious Council of any State or Federal Territory, shall have all the powers of a police officer of whatever *NOTE—Previously “five thousand ringgit or to im prisonment not exceeding two years ”–see section 13 Printing of Qur’anic Texts (Amendment) Act 2023 [Act A1696]. **NOTE—Previously “twenty thousand ringgit ”–see subparagraph 14( c)(i) Printing of Qur’anic Texts (Amendment) Act 2023 [Act A1696]. 

18 Laws of Malaysia ACT 326 rank as provided for in the Criminal Procedure Code [ Act 593 ] in relation to police investigation in seizable cases, and such powers shall be in addition to the powers provided for in this Act and not in derogation thereof. Forfeiture and disposal of Qur’anic texts or Qur’anic material 15. (1) Where any person is charged with any offence under this Act or regulations made thereunder involving an y Qur’anic text or Qur’anic material and the court is satisfied, on the basis of a certificate under paragraph 16 (a) that there is any error or it is not in accordance with the writing method determined by the Lembaga, in respect of the Qur’anic Verses con tained in the Qur’anic text or Qur’anic material, the court shall order its forfeiture, notwithstanding that no person is convicted of any offence or that no offence is proven. (2) Without prejudice to subsection (1), where any person is charged in any co urt and it is proved to the satisfaction of the court that an offence under this Act or any regulations made thereunder has been committed and that any article, including a Qur’anic text or Qur’anic material, is the subject matter, or was used in the commission, of the offence, the court shall order the forfeiture of such article, notwithstanding that no person may have been convicted of any offence. (3) Any Qur’anic text or Qur’anic material which is ordered to be forfeited under subsection (1) or (2) sha ll be delivered to the Lembaga to be disposed of in any manner it thinks fit. Mufti’s certificate to be conclusive proof 16. For the purposes of any prosecution or proceedings under this Act or any action or proceedings arising from or in relation to th e implementation of this Act— (a) a certificate from any Mufti that any text or document is or contains a Qur’anic text or a Qur’anic Verse, or that any 

Printing of Qur’anic Texts 19 combination of words is a Qur’anic Verse, or that there is any error in any Qur’anic text or Qur’anic Vers e shall be accepted by the court as conclusive proof of the matters certified therein; (b) an alleged Qur’anic text or Qur’anic Verse is a Qur’anic text or Qur’anic Verse, notwithstanding that it differs in any respect from the true Qur’anic text or from any true Qur’anic Verse, if there is produced a certificate from any Mufti, which certificate shall be accepted by the court as conclusive proof of the matters certified therein, certifying that the alleged Qur’anic text would be the true Qur’anic text, or the alleged Qur’anic Verse would be a particular true Qur’anic Verse, specifying the Verse, if certain corrections are made or certain omissions supplied, specifying the corrections or omissions. Power to seize, detain and search for unlawful Qur’anic texts or Qur’anic material 17. (1) Any police officer not below the rank of Inspector, or any public officer authorized in writing by the Islamic Religious Council of any State or Federal Territory, may seize , detain and search any Qur’anic text or Qur’anic m aterial found in the possession of any person if the police officer or the public officer has reasonable cause to believe that it has been printed, published, imported, distributed or sold, or is intended to be published, imported, distributed or sold, in contravention of this Act or of any condition attached to the licence under section 5, or that there is any error in respect of the Qur’anic Verses contained in the Qur’anic text or Qur’anic material. (2) Any police officer not below the rank of Inspector or any public officer authorized in writing by the Islamic Religious Council of any State or Federal Territory to apply for a warrant under this subsection may apply to a Magistrate or a Sessions Court Judge for a warrant empowering such officer to enter upon any premises and search for and seize and detain any Qur’anic text or Qur’anic material the printing, publication, importation, distribution or sale of which is 

20 Laws of Malaysia ACT 326 unlawful under this Act, or which contains any error in respect of the Qur’anic Verses contained in the Qur’anic text or Qur’anic material. (3) An application for a warrant under subsection (2) shall be supported by an information to the effect that there is reasonable cause for suspecting that there is in the premises any Qur’anic text or Qur’anic material the printing, publication, importation, distribution or sale of which is unlawful under this Act, or which contains any error in respect of the Qur’anic Verses contained in the Qur’anic text or Qur’anic material, and the Magistrate or Sessio ns Court Judge to whom the application is made shall, unless he has grounds to believe that the information supplied is not correct, issue the warrant applied for. (4) Whenever it appears to any police officer not below the rank of Assistant Superintendent that there is reasonable cause to believe that in any premises there is concealed or deposited any Qur’anic text or Qur’anic material the printing, publication , importation, distribution or sale of which is unlawful under this Act, or which contains any error in respect of the Qur’anic Verses contained in the Qur’anic text or Qur’anic material, and he has good grounds for believing that by reason of the delay which would be entailed by obtaining a search warrant the object of the search is likely to be frustrated, he may enter and search the premises and seize and detain the Qur’anic text or Qur’anic material as if he were empowered to do so by a warrant issued under subsection (2). Examination and disposal of Qur’anic texts or Qur’anic material 18. Any Qur’anic text or Qur’anic material seized and detained under section 17 shall, unless any person is charged in court and such Qur’anic text or Qur’anic material is required to be produced as an exhibit, as soon as practicable , be delivered to the Lembaga and be examined by the Lembaga and— (a) if it is certified by the Lembaga to be correct and in accordance with the writing method determined by the Lembaga as regards the Qur’anic Verses contained therein, it shall be returned to the person from whom it 

Printing of Qur’anic Texts 21 was seized not later than six months from the date of the seizure; or (b) if it is certified by the Lembaga to contain any error or that it is not in accordance with the writing method determined by the Lembaga in respect of the Qur’anic Verses contained therein, it shall be disposed of in any manner the Lembaga deems fit. Barring of action 19. No person shall be entitled to maintain any action, whether for compensation, damages or otherwise, on account of any act done or any decision taken by or on behalf or on the direction of the Lembaga, or by any police officer or public officer, under section 12, 17 or 18, and no court shall have any jurisdiction to entertain any such action. Sanction for prosecution 20. No prosecution shall be instituted under this Act without the previous sanction in writing of the Public Prosecutor. Compounding of offences 20A. (1) The Minister may, with the approval of the Public Prosecutor, make regulations for prescribing— (a) any offence under this Act or any regulations made thereunder, as an offence which may be compounded; and (b) the method and procedure for compounding such offence. (2) The Chairman of the Lembaga or any public officer authorized in writing by the Chairman of the Lembaga may, with the consent in writing of the P ublic Prosecutor, at any time before a charge is being instituted, compound any offence prescribed as an offence which may 

22 Laws of Malaysia ACT 326 be compounded under this Act by making a written offer to the person suspected to have committed the offence to compound the offence upon payment to the Chairman of the Lembaga of an amount of money not exceeding fifty per centum of the amount of maximum fine for that offence within such time as may be specified in the written offer. (3) An offer under subsection (2) may be made at any time after the offence has been committed but before any prosecution for it has been instituted. (4) If the amount specified in the offer is not paid within the time specified in the offer or such extended time as the Chairman of the Lembaga may grant, p rosecution for the offence may be instituted at any time after that against the person to whom the offer was made. (5) Where an offence has been compounded under subsection (2)— (a) no prosecution shall be instituted in respect of the offence against the pe rson to whom the offer to compound was made; and (b) any Qur’anic text or Qur’anic material, document, record or anything seized in connection with the offence may be forfeited and disposed of or released by the Chairman of the Lembaga, subject to such terms and conditions as the Chairman of the Lembaga thinks fit. (6) All moneys received by the Chairman of Lembaga under this section shall be paid into and form part of the Federal Consolidated Fund. Presumption as to printer, etc. 21. The printer, publishe r or importer whose name or address is printed on any Qur’anic text or Qur’anic material shall be presumed, until the contrary is proved, to have printed such Qur’anic text or 

Printing of Qur’anic Texts 23 Qur’anic material at the address stated therein or to have published or imported it. Public servant 21A. The members of the Lembaga while discharging their duties or performing their functions or exercising their powers under this Act or any regulations made under this Act shall be deemed to be a public servant within the meaning of the Penal Code [Act 574]. Application of Public Authorities Protection Act 1948 21B. The Public Authorities Protection Act 1948 [ Act 198 ] shall apply to any action, suit, prosecution or proceedings against the Lembaga or any member of the Lembaga in r espect of any act, neglect or default done or committed by it or him in good faith or any omission by it or him in good faith, in such capacity. Corporations and firms 22. For the purposes of this Act, a corporation may act by a director or its secretary, and a firm may act by any of its partners. Liability of partners, directors, employees, etc. 23. (1) Whenever an offence under this Act or any regulations made thereunder is committed by a body corporate, any director, manager, secretary or other officer of the body corporate shall also be deemed guilty of that offence. (2) Any person who would have been guilty of an offence if anything had been done or omitted by him personally shall be guilty of that offence and liable to the same penalty if the th ing had been done or omitted to be done by his partner, agent or servant in the course of the partnership business or in the course of his employment, as the case may be. 

24 Laws of Malaysia ACT 326 (3) Whenever any agent or servant in the course of his employment does or omits to do any act the doing or omission to do of which is an offence under this Act or any regulations made thereunder, his principal or employer shall also be guilty of the offence. Exemption 24. (1) Nothing in this Act shall apply to the printing, publication, sale, distribution or circulation of any Qur’anic text or Qur’anic material by the Federal or any State Government or any statutory body authorized by the Federal or State Government, as the case may be. (2) The Minister may by order published in the Gazette exempt any person or Qur’anic text or Qur’anic material from the application of all or any of the provisions of this Act. Regulations 25. The Minister may make regulations— (a) for prescribing the forms to be used under this Act; (b) for fixing the fees to be charged under this Act; (c) to provide for any matter or thing which is to be or may be prescribed; (d) to provide for the procedure for the submission of Qur’anic texts to the Lembaga; (e) to provide for the form of the certificates under this Act; (f) generally for carrying into effect the provisions of this Act. 

Printing of Qur’anic Texts 25 Power to issue guidelines or directives 26. (1) For the purposes of this Act or the subsidiary legislation made under this Act, the Lembaga may issue guideline or directive as it considers appropri ate to regulate the printing, importation, publication, sale, distribution, disposal, translation or interpretation of Qur’anic text or Qur’anic material and may impose any condition or restriction as the Lembaga thinks fit. (2) Every guideline or directi ve issued under this Act or the subsidiary legislation made under this Act shall be published by the Lembaga in such manner as to ensure that the guideline or directive is brought to the attention of the person who has to comply with such guideline or directive. (3) The Lembaga may impose a financial penalty for any non - compliance of any guideline or directive issued under this section— (a) where such person is an individual, to an amount not exceeding twenty-five thousand ringgit; or (b) where such person is a body corporate, to an amount not exceeding fifty thousand ringgit. (4) The Lembaga may a mend or revoke any guideline or directive issued under this section. *NOTE—See section 22 of the Printing Of Qur’anic Texts (Amendment) Act 2023 [Act A1696] w.e.f 1 September 2023 which provides the following provision: Saving 22. Notwithstanding the provisions of this Act, the members of the Lembaga appointed before the date of coming into operation of this Act shall continue to hold office for a period of six months from the date of coming into operation of this Act. 

26 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 326 PRINTING OF QURANIC TEXTS ACT 1986 LIST OF AMENDMENTS Amending law Short title In force from Act A671 Subordinate Courts (Amendment) Act 1987 221987 Act A1023 Printing of Qur’anic Texts (Amendment) Act 1998 011998 Act A1696 Printing of Qur’anic Texts (Amendment) Act 2023 012023 

27 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 326 PRINTING OF QUR’ANIC TEXTS ACT 1986 LIST OF SECTIONS AMENDED Section Amending authority In force from 2 Act A1023 Act A1696 011998 012023 3 Act A1023 Act A1696 011998 012023 3A Act A1696 012023 5 Act A1696 012023 6 Act A1023 Act A1696 011998 012023 7 Act A1696 012023 7A Act A1696 012023 7B Act A1696 012023 8 Act A1023 Act A1696 011998 012023 9 Act A1696 012023 10 Act A1696 012023 11 Act A1696 012023 12 Act A1023 011998 13 Act A1023 Act A1696 011998 012023 14 Act A1696 012023 14A Act A1696 012023 

28 Laws of Malaysia ACT 326 Section Amending authority In force from 15 Act A1696 012023 17 Act A671 Act A1696 221987 012023 18 Act A1696 012023 20A Act A1696 012023 21A Act A1696 012023 21B Act A1696 012023 26 Act A1696 012023