1Bretton Woods Agreements LAWS OF MALAYSIA RepRint Act 472 BRETTON WOODS AGREEMENTS ACT 1957 Incorporating all amendments up to 1 October 2008 published by the CommissioneR of law Revision, malaysia undeR the authoRity of the Revision of laws aCt 1968 2008

2 BRETTON WOODS AGREEMENTS ACT 1957 f irst enacted ... ... ... ... 1957 ( o rd. n o. 75 of 1957) Revised … … … … 1991 (act 472 w.e.f. 16 september 1991) Pr e v i o u s r e Pr i n t s First Reprint … … … … … 2001 Second Reprint … … … … … 2006

3 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 472 BRETTON WOODS AGREEMENTS ACT 1957 aRRanGement of seCtions section 1. short title and application 2. (Omitted) 3. a uthorization of signature of a rticles of a greement of the f und and the bank respectively 4. (Deleted) 5. (Deleted) 5a . p ower of the y ang di- pertuan a gong to assign rights and obligations to bank negara malaysia 6. subscription to international bank for Reconstruction and development 7. other payments to the international bank 8. Charges and receipts 9. orders for carrying the agreements into effect F i r s t s c h e d u l e s e c o n d s c h e d u l e

4 Laws of Malaysia Ac t 472

5Bretton Woods Agreements LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 472 BRETTON WOODS AGREEMENTS ACT 1957 an act to enable mal aysia to become a member of the international m onetary f und and of the international b ank for Reconstruction and d evelopment by acceptance of the international agreements for the establishment and operation of the fund and bank. [Peninsular Malaysia − 30 December 1957; Sabah and Sarawak − 3 December 1964, L.N. 419/1964] Short title and application 1. (1) this act may be cited as the bretton w oods agreements act 1957. (2) this act shall apply throughout malaysia. 2. ( Omitted). Authorization of signature of Articles of Agreement of the Fund and the Bank respectively 3. the yang di-pertuan agong is hereby authorized by instruments under his hand to empower such person as may be named in such instruments, on behalf of the Government of malaysia— (a) to sign the articles of agreement of the international m onetary f und and the a rticles of a greement of the international bank for Reconstruction and development, respectively; and

6 Laws of Malaysia Ac t 472 *See bretton w oods a greements o rder 1969 [P .U. (A) 505/1969] w.e.f. 16 december 1969. (b) to deposit with the Government of the u nited s tates of america instruments of acceptance of the articles of agreement of the fund (hereinafter referred to as “the f und a greement”) and of the a rticles of a greement of the b ank (hereinafter referred to as “the b ank a greement”), stating that the Government of malaysia has accepted in accordance with its law the respective articles and the terms and conditions prescribed thereunder as the terms upon which the Government of malaysia shall be admitted to membership of the fund and the bank. *4. ( Deleted by Act A18). *5. ( Deleted by Act A18). Power of the Yang di-Pertuan Agong to assign rights and obligations to Bank Negara Malaysia 5 A. (1) t he y ang di- pertuan a gong may if he thinks it expedient, by order authorize bank negara malaysia to exercise rights and to perform obligations in respect of the membership of m alaysia in accordance with the terms and conditions as set out in the first schedule. *(2) upon the making of an order in subsection (1)— (a) the rights and obligations referred to shall, notwithstanding the Central bank of malaysia act 1958 [Act 519], be deemed to be the rights and obligations of bank negara malaysia; and (b) paragraph 28(g) and subparagraphs 30(1)(oo)(ii) and (iii) of the Central b ank of m alaysia a ct 1958 shall have effect. (c) ( Omitted). (3) bank negara malaysia may, with the prior approval in writing of the minister of finance, accept on behalf of the Government of m alaysia and pay any increase in the subscription of m alaysia to the international m onetary f und which is made in accordance with the fund agreement.

7Bretton Woods Agreements Subscription to International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 6. (1)(a) there shall be charged on the Consolidated fund such part of the subscription of malaysia specified in paragraph 2 of the terms and conditions set out in the s econd s chedule as may, in accordance with those terms and conditions and a rticle ii of the b ank a greement, be payable in gold or u nited s tates dollars or in malaysian currency. (b) t here shall be charged on the Consolidated f und such part of any increase in the subscription of malaysia as may in accordance with article ii of the bank agreement be payable in gold or united states dollars or in malaysian currency. (c) e xcept with the approval signified by resolution of the dewan Rakyat the subscription of malaysia shall not be increased so that it (including any increases) exceeds the sum of fifty million united states dollars. (2) t he m inister of f inance is hereby authorized, on behalf of the Government, to create and issue to the international b ank for Reconstruction and d evelopment, in such form as he thinks fit, any such non-interest-bearing and non-negotiable notes or other obligations as the bank may, under section 12 of article v of the b ank a greement, determine to accept in place of any part of the subscription of malaysia which would, but for such acceptance, be payable in malaysian currency. Other payments to the International Bank 7. there shall be charged on the Consolidated fund— (a) all sums payable to the international b ank for Reconstruction and development under section 9 of article ii of the b ank a greement (which relates to changes in the par or foreign exchange value of currencies of members); and (b) all sums required for the redemption of any notes or obligations created and issued to that bank under this act.

8 Laws of Malaysia Ac t 472 Charges and receipts *8. (1) (Deleted by Act A18). (2) all sums received by or on behalf of the Government of malaysia from the international bank for Reconstruction and development shall be paid into the Consolidated fund. Orders for carrying the Agreements into effect 9. (1) the y ang di-pertuan agong may, by order, make such provision as he may consider reasonably necessary for carrying into effect the fund agreement and the bank agreement relating to the status, immunities and privileges of the international monetary fund and of the international bank for Reconstruction and development and their respective governors, executive directors, alternates, officers and employees, or any of the provisions of the fund agreement as to the unenforceability of exchange contracts. (2) w ithout prejudice to the generality of subsection (1), any o rder made under that subsection may declare that any specified provisions of the f und a greement or the b ank a greement shall have the force of law in malaysia. Fi r s t s c h e d u l e [section 4] Terms And Conditions Upon Which Malaysia Is Admitted To Membership Of The International Monetary Fund Resolution adopted by the Board of Governors of the International Monetary Fund, Twelfth Annual Meeting. W h e r e a s, the Government of m alaysia on 29 m ay 1957, applied for admission to membership in the international m onetary f und in accordance with section 2 of article ii of the articles of agreement of the fund; and Wh e r e a s, pursuant to section 21 of the b y-l aws of the f und, the e xecutive d irectors have consulted with representatives of that Government and have agreed upon the terms and conditions which, in the opinion of the e xecutive d irectors, the b oard of Governors may wish to prescribe for admitting m alaysia to membership in the fund. *See bretton w oods a greements o rder 1969 [P .U. (A) 505/1969] w.e.f. 16 december 1969.

9Bretton Woods Agreements n o W, t h e r eFo r e, the b oard of Governors, having considered the recommendations of the e xecutive d irectors, hereby resolves that the terms and conditions upon which m alaysia shall be admitted to membership in the f und shall be as follows: 1. Definitions: as used in this resolution: (a) the term “fund” means international monetary fund. (b) t he term “a rticles” means the a rticles of a greement of the international monetary fund. (c) t he term “dollars” or “$” means u nited s tate dollars of the weight and fineness in effect on 1 July 1944. 2. Quota: the quota of malaysia shall be $25 million. 3. Subscription: t he subscription of m alaysia shall be equal to its quota, and not less than 3.5 per cent of the subscription shall be paid in gold and the balance in the currency of malaysia. 4. Payment of Subscription: t he portion of the subscription to be paid in gold shall be paid not later than the day the a rticles are signed on behalf of m alaysia. in case m alaysia does not acquire membership in the f und the gold so paid shall be returned to it by the f und. t he remaining part of the subscription which has not been paid in gold shall be paid before the thirtieth day after the initial par value of the currency of m alaysia has been agreed in accordance with paragraph 5 below. 5. Determination of Par Value: w ithin 30 days after the f und so requests, m alaysia shall communicate to the f und a proposed par value for its currency, and within 60 days following the f und’s receipt of the proposed par value, m alaysia and the f und shall agree on an initial par value for the currency; provided that the f und may extend the period of 60 days and that m alaysia shall be deemed to have withdrawn from the f und if agreement on a par value has not been reached when the extended period expires. in the period between accepting membership and the establishment of an initial par value pursuant to this paragraph, m alaysia shall not change its exchange rates prevailing at the time of accepting membership without agreement with the f und after prior consultation. 6. Exchange Transaction with the Fund: m alaysia may not engage in exchange transactions with the f und before the thirtieth day after the par value of its currency has been agreed in accordance with paragraph 5 above and its subscription has been fully paid. 7. Representation and Information: b efore accepting membership in the f und, malaysia shall represent to the f und that it has taken all action necessary to sign and deposit the instrument of a cceptance and sign the a rticles, as contemplated in paragraphs 8(a) and (b) of this resolution, and m alaysia shall furnish to the f und such information in respect of such action as the f und may request.

10 Laws of Malaysia Ac t 472 8. Acceptance of Membership: a fter the f und shall have informed the Government of the u nited s tates of a merica that m alaysia has complied with the conditions set forth in paragraph 7 of this resolution, m alaysia shall become a member of the f und as of the date when m alaysia shall have complied with the following requirements: (a) m alaysia shall deposit with the Government of the u nited s tates of a merica an instrument stating that it has accepted in accordance with its law the a rticles and all the terms and conditions prescribed in this resolution, and that it has taken all steps necessary to enable it to carry out all its obligations under the a rticles and this resolution; and (b) m alaysia shall sign the original copy of the a rticles held in the archives of the Government of the united states of america. 9. Limitation on Period for Acceptance of Membership: m alaysia may accept membership in the f und pursuant to this resolution within six months of the effective date of this resolution, which date shall be the date of its adoption by the b oard of Governors; provided, however, that, if extraordinary circumstances are deemed by the e xecutive d irectors to warrant an extension of the period during which the applicant may accept membership pursuant to this resolution, the e xecutive d irectors may extend such period until such later date as they may determine. s e c o n d s c h e d u l e [section 6] Terms And Conditions Upon Which Malaysia Is Admitted To Membership Of The International Bank For Reconstruction And Development Resolution adopted by the Board of Governors of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development on 25 September 1957. Wh e r e a s, the Government of m alaysia has applied for admission to membership in the international b ank for Reconstruction and d evelopment in accordance with section 1(b) of a rticle ii of the a rticles of a greement of the bank; and Wh e r e a s, pursuant to section 20 of the b y-l aws of the b ank, the e xecutive d irectors, after consultation with representatives of the Government of m alaysia, have made recommendations to the b oard of Governors with regard to this application of said country;

11Bretton Woods Agreements n o W, t h e r eFo r e, the board of Governors, hereby r e s o l v e s: t h a t the terms and conditions upon which m alaysia shall be admitted to membership in the bank shall be as follows: 1. Definitions: as used in this resolution: (a) “articles” means the articles of agreement of the bank. (b) “b ank” means i nternational b ank for Reconstruction and development. (c) “d ollars” or “$” means u nited s tates dollars of the weight and fineness in effect on 1 July 1944. (d) “member” means member of the bank. (e) “s ubscription” means the capital stock of the b ank subscribed to by a member. 2. Subscription: b y accepting membership in the b ank, m alaysia shall subscribe to 250 shares of the capital stock of the b ank at the par value of $100,000 per share. 3. Membership in the Fund: b efore accepting membership in the b ank, m alaysia shall accept membership in and become a member of the international monetary fund. 4. Payments on Subscription: (a) before accepting membership in the b ank, m alaysia shall pay to the bank— (i) Gold or u nited s tates dollars equal to 2 per cent of its subscription; and (ii) a n amount in the currency of m alaysia which, at the appropriate prevailing exchange rate, shall be equal in value to 18 per cent of its subscription. (b) m alaysia shall agree that, if it tenders any part of the payment called for in paragraph (a)(i) above in gold, the b ank shall have the right to reject any such gold which, in its opinion, may not be sold freely and unconditionally by the b ank to members requiring certification or other evidence as to the origin of gold purchased by them. 5. Representation and Information: b efore accepting membership in the b ank, m alaysia shall represent to the b ank that it has taken all action necessary to sign and deposit the instrument of acceptance and sign the a rticles as contemplated by paragraphs 6(d) and (e) of this resolution and m alaysia shall furnish to the b ank such information in respect of such action as the b ank may request.

12 Laws of Malaysia Ac t 472 6. Acceptance of Membership: m alaysia shall become a member of the b ank, with a subscription as set forth in paragraph 2 of this resolution, as of the date when malaysia shall have complied with the following requirements: (a) become a member of the international monetary fund; (b) made the payments called for by paragraph 4 of this resolution; (c) f urnished the representation, and such information as may have been requested, pursuant to paragraph 5 of this resolution; (d) d eposited with the Government of the u nited s tates of a merica an instrument stating that it has accepted in accordance with its law the a rticles and all the terms and conditions prescribed in this resolution, and that it has taken all steps necessary to enable it to carry out all its obligations under the articles and this resolution; (e) s igned the original copy of the a rticles held in the a rchives of the Government of the united states of america. 7. Limitation on Period for Acceptance of Membership: m alaysia may accept membership in the b ank pursuant to this resolution until 31 m arch 1958; provided, however, that, if extraordinary circumstances are deemed by the e xecutive d irectors to warrant an extension of the period during which m alaysia may accept membership pursuant to this resolution, the e xecutive directors may extend such period.

13Bretton Woods Agreements LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 472 BRETTON WOODS AGREEMENTS ACT 1957 list of amendments amending law short title in force from ord. 40/1959 bretton w oods agreements (amendment) ordinance 1959 281959 act a18 Central bank of malaysia (amendment) act 1969 281969 p.u. (a) 505/1969 bretton w oods agreements order 1969 161969 p.u. (a) 438/1970 emergency (essential powers) ordinance no. 60/1970 031970 act a70 bretton w oods agreements (amendment) act 1971 171971 act 160 malaysian Currency (Ringgit) act 1975 291975

14 Laws of Malaysia Ac t 472 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 472 BRETTON WOODS AGREEMENTS ACT 1957 list of seCtions amended section amending authority in force from 4 ord. 40/1959 a ct a 18 p.u. (a) 505/1969 281959 281969 161969 5 act a18 p.u. (a) 505/1969 281969 161969 5 a act a18 p.u. (a) 438/1970 act a 70 281969 031970 171971 6 ord. 40/1959 281959 8 act a18 p.u. (a) 505/1969 281969 161969 l ist of laws oR paR ts theReof supeRseded no. t itle 75 of 1957 bretton w oods agreements ordinance 1957 DICETAK OLEH PERCETAKAN NASIONAL MALAYSIA BERHAD, KUALA LUMPUR BAGI PIHAK DAN DENGAN PERINTAH KERAJAAN MALAYSIA Jw512853