1Youth Societies and Youth Development Laws of maLaysia REPRINT act 668 youth societies and youth deveLopment act 2007 As at 1 November 2014 PublIshEd by ThE commIssIoNER of law REvIsIoN, malaysIa uNdER ThE auThoRITy of ThE REvIsIoN of law acT 1968 2014

2 Laws of Malaysia Ac t 6682 youth societies and youth deveLopment act 2007 date of Royal assent … … … 18 July 2007 date of publication in the Gazette … … 26 July 2007

3Youth Societies and Youth Development Laws of maLaysia act 668 youth societies and youth deveLopment act 2007 aRRaNGEmENT of sEcTIoNs Pa r t I PRElImINaR y section 1. short title and commencement 2. Interpretation Pa r t II admINIsTRa TIoN of acT 3. a ppointment of d irector General, d eputy d irector General and director 4. a ppointment of Registrar, d eputy Registrar, a ssistant Registrars, officers and other servants 5. Powers of Registrar 6. Power of delegation Pa r t III youTh socIETIEs chapter 1 Registration 7. a pplication for registration 8. Power of Registrar to call for information 9. Registration and refusal to register 10. certificate of registration

4 Laws of Malaysia Ac t 668 chapter 2 Provisions applicable to registered youth societies section 11. Provisions applicable to registered youth societies 12. head of youth societies 13. d isqualifications applicable to office-bearers, advisers and employees of registered youth societies 14. Representations 15. condition to cessation of disqualification 16. Inspection of documents and evidentiary value of copies certified by Registrar 17. c hange of name, place of business and rules of registered youth society 18. branch of a youth society 19. l iability of registered youth society in respect of contracts entered into by branch 20. cancellation and suspension 21. Power of Registrar to make certain orders in respect of registered youth societies 22. Information to be furnished by registered youth societies 23. Registrar to approve audit and provisional order for dissolution 24. Persons responsible for supplying information 25. c onsequence of order of the m inister under section 33, refusal of the Registrar to register a youth society under section 9 and cancellation of registration of a youth society under section 20 26. a pplication of section 25 to unlawful branch of registered youth societies 27. v esting of property of a youth society whose registration has been cancelled in a new registered youth society chapter 3 Disputes and Dispute Resolution Panel 28. disputes 29. dispute Resolution Panel

5Youth Societies and Youth Development chapter 4 Appeals section 30. appeals chapter 5 General Provisions 31. Registered youth societies to act in fulfilment of the constitution 32. y outh societies deemed to be established in malaysia 33. Power of the minister to declare a youth society unlawful Pa r t Iv youTh dEvEloPmENT 34. Policies in relation to youth development Pa r t v Na TIoNal youTh coNsul Ta TIvE couNcIl 35. National y outh consultative council 36. function of the council 37. members of the council 38. council may invite others to conferences or meetings 39. Tenure of office 40. Revocation of appointment and resignation 41. v acation of office 42. filling of vacancies 43. committees 44. secretariat 45. Remuneration or allowances 46. conference of council 47. disqualification to be a member 48. allocation of fund

6 Laws of Malaysia Ac t 668 Pa r t vI maIN body of youTh socIETIEs a T ThE Na TIoNal lEvEl chapter 1 General Provisions section 49. main body of youth societies at the national level 50. functions of the main body of youth societies at the national level 51. annual report chapter 2 Financial allocation and assistance 52. a pplication for annual allocation of main body of youth societies at the national level 53. approval of financial allocation and assistance 54. a ccounts and audit of main body of youth societies at the national level Pa r t vII malaysIaN INsTITuTE foR REsEaRch IN youTh dEvEloPmENT chapter 1 General Provisions 55. malaysian Institute for Research In y outh development 56. common seal 57. functions of the Institute 58. Powers of the Institute chapter 2 Board of Directors of Malaysian Institute For Research In Youth Development 59. The board of directors 60. membership of the board

7Youth Societies and Youth Development section 61. Powers and functions of the board 62. Tenure of office 63. Revocation of appointment and resignation 64. v acation of office 65. delegation of functions and powers of the board 66. committees of the board 67. Remuneration and allowances 68. Power of minister to give directions 69. v alidity of an act and proceedings chapter 3 Provisions relating to employees 70. chief Executive officer 71. appointment of officers chapter 4 Finance 72. Establishment of fund 73. Expenditure to be charged on fund 74. Expenditure and preparation of estimates 75. conservation of fund 76. Power to invest 77. accounts and reports 78. financial procedure 79. financial year Pa r t vIII offENcEs 80. unlawful youth societies 81. Penalty for managing, etc., an unlawful youth society 82. Penalty for attending meetings, etc., an unlawful youth society

8 Laws of Malaysia Ac t 668 83. Penalty on persons allowing unlawful youth society on premises 84. Penalty for inciting, etc., a person to become a member of an unlawful youth society 85. Penalty for procuring subscription or aid for an unlawful youth society 86. Penalty for publishing, etc., propaganda of an unlawful youth society 87. Penalty for acting on behalf of or representing an unlawful youth society 88. Penalty against office-bearer of a youth society whose registration has been cancelled 89. u sage of flags, symbols, emblems, badges or other insignia of youth societies 90. liability of office-bearer in respect of offences by youth society 91. y outh society using a triad ritual to be deemed an unlawful youth society 92. Penalty for misuse of money or property of a registered youth society 93. Penalty for displaying or using certificate of registration which has been cancelled 94. Penalty for fraud 95. Penalty for furnishing false information 96. Presumptions 97. Presumption of membership, etc., of youth society 98. Expert evidence 99. Protection of informers 100. forfeiture 101. certain non-bailable and registrable offences Pa r t IX ENfoRcEmENT aNd INvEsTIGa TIoN 102. Enforcement officers 103. Powers of enforcement officers 104. disclosure of authorisation card 105. Power of inspection 106. disclosure of document, etc. 107. seizure of document, etc. 108. application for search warrant section

9Youth Societies and Youth Development section 109. Power of magistrate to issue search warrant 110. Power to enter premises without warrant or notice 111. search and seizure without warrant 112. Power to seal Pa r t X mIscEllaNEous 113. Public servant 114. Public authorities Protection act 1948 115. obligation of secrecy 116. Representation in civil proceedings 117. Prosecution 118. Protection 119. Non entitlement to cost of proceedings, damages or other reliefs, etc. 120. amendment of schedules 121. Regulations 122. General offences 123. General powers of minister 124. Transitional provisions 125. Prevention of anomalies F i r s t s c h e d u l e s e c o n d s c h e d u l e t h i r d s c h e d u l e

10 Laws of Malaysia Ac t 668

11Youth Societies and Youth Development Laws of maLaysia act 668 youth societies and youth deveLopment act 2007 an act to register youth societies, promote and facilitate the development of youth in malaysia from the aspect of education, research and human resource, to establish a National y outh consultative council, to establish the malaysian Institute for Research In y outh d evelopment and to provide for related matters. [ Throughout Malaysia—31 December 2007, [P .U. (B) 455/2007 ]; except Sabah and Sarawak—1 October 2010, [P .U. (B) 414/2010 ]. enacted by the Parliament of malaysia as follows: Pa r t I PRElImINaR y short title and commencement 1. (1) This a ct may be cited as the y outh s ocieties and y outh development act 2007. (2) This a ct comes into operation on such date as the m inister may appoint by notification in the Gazette , and the minister may appoint different dates— (a) for the coming into operation of this a ct in different parts of malaysia; (b) for the coming into operation of different provisions of this act; or

12 Laws of Malaysia Ac t 668 (c) for the coming into operati on of different provisions of this act in different parts of malaysia. interpretation 2. In this act, unless the context otherwise requires— “youth activity” means any activity involving the youth whose objectives include the following: (a) to build youth character; (b) to develop patriotism among youths; (c) to spread the principles of the Rukun Negara; (d) to create the awareness among youth against negative element and values; (e) to enable youth awareness of culture, the environment, sports, health, spirituality and social welfare; (f) to provide opportunities for youth participation in urban and rural community development programmes; (g) to provide opportunities for training in leadership, skills and entrepreneurship; and (h) to assist the youth to adapt and form positive attitudes in facing the challenges and exigencies of life through the use of educational and life skills components; “main body of youth societies at the national level” means a youth society registered under this act and recognized as the main body of youth societies at the national level under section 49; “youth” means a person not less than fifteen years and not more than forty years old; “Institute” means the malaysian Institute for Research In y outh development established under section 55; “head” includes President, y ang d ipertua, c hairman or any supreme position which refers to a highest ranking office in youth societies;

13Youth Societies and Youth Development “director General” means the director General responsible for youth appointed under subsection 3(1); “b oard” means the b oard of d irectors of the Institute established under section 59; “c ouncil” means the National y outh c onsultative c ouncil established under section 35; “minister” means the minister charged with the responsibility for youth affairs; “Panel” means the dispute Resolution Panel under section 29; “office-bearers” means any person who is the president or vice- president, or secretary or treasurer of such society or any branch of a society, or who is a member of the committee or governing body thereof, or of any branch thereof or who holds in such society or branch of a society any office or position analogous to any of those mentioned above; “Registrar” means the Registrar of y outh s ocieties appointed under subsection 4(1); “society” includes any club, company, partnership, or association of seven or more persons whatever its nature or object, whether temporary or permanent, but does not include— (a) any company registered under the provisions of any written law relating to companies for the time being in force in malaysia; (b) any company or association constituted under any written law; (c) any trade union registered or required to be registered under the provisions of any written law relating to trade unions for the time bei ng in force in malaysia; (d) any company, association or partnership formed for the sole purpose of carrying on any lawful business that has for its object the acquisition of gain by the company, association or partnership, or by individual members thereof;

14 Laws of Malaysia Ac t 668 (e) any co-operative society, registered as such, under any written law; (f) any organization or association which has been granted a certificate by a person or authority appointed under the provisions of a written law for the time being in force relating to the registration of schools and that such organization or association forms part of the curriculum of a school; or (g) any school, management committee of a school, parents association or parents and teachers association registered or exempted from registration under any law for the time being in force regulating schools; “youth society” means any society having the following criteria: (a) has a name which contains the word “youth” or a word which has similar or like meaning to the youth; (b) all the members who shall not be less than the ages of fifteen years and not more than forty years old or any affiliated or group of societies whose members shall not be less than fifteen years and not more than forty years old; and (c) has the objective to conduct youth activities; “registered youth societies” means a youth society which is registered under subsection 9(1). Pa r t II admINIsTRa TIoN of acT a ppointment of d irector General, d eputy d irector General and directors 3. (1) The minister shall appoint a public officer to be the director General for the purpose of carrying out or implementing the policies or directives issued by the minister under Part Iv relating to youth development.

15Youth Societies and Youth Development (2) The minister may, from time to time, appoint from amongst the public service, such number of d eputy d irectors General, d irectors, d eputy d irectors, a ssistant d irectors and such other officers as are necessary to assist the d irector General in the performance of his functions and duties under this act. (3) a ll officers appointed under subsection (2) shall be subject to the supervision, direction and control of the director General. a ppointment of Registrar, d eputy Registrar, a ssistant Registrars, officers and other servants 4. (1) a Registrar of y outh s ocieties shall be appointed by the minister. (2) The minister may appoint a deputy Registrar of y outh s ocieties and such number of a ssistant Registrars of y outh s ocieties, officers and other servants who shall be under the general direction and control of the Registrar. (3) The Registrar shall have the powers and exercise the functions conferred on him by this a ct, and in his absence such powers and functions may be had or exercised by the d eputy Registrar. (4) The a ssistant Registrar may exercise all the powers and functions conferred on the Registrar by or under this a ct, subject to any restriction that may be imposed by the Registrar. (5) a ll officers and other servants appointed under subsection (2) shall be deemed to be public servants for the purposes of the Penal code [ Act 574 ]. powers of Registrar 5. In addition to the powers, duties and functions conferred on the Registrar by this act and any regulations made thereunder, the Registrar shall have and may exercise all such powers, discharge all such duties and perform all such functions as may be necessary for the purpose of giving effect to and carrying out the provisions of this act.

16 Laws of Malaysia Ac t 668 power of delegation 6. (1) The Registrar may, in writing, delegate any of the powers conferred on him under this a ct, except the power of delegation under this section, to the deputy Registrar or any of the assistant Registrars appointed under subsection 4(2). (2) any delegation under subsection (1) shall be subject to any restriction and limitation as may be prescribed by the Registrar in the instrument of delegation. Pa r t III youTh socIETIEs chapter 1 Registration application for registration 7. (1) Every youth society, other than that in respect of which an order made under section 33 is in force shall, in the manner prescribed apply to the Registrar for registration under this act. (2) Every youth society shall register with the Registrar except— (a) any society that is established under any of the a cts as prescribed under the first schedule; and (b) any youth wing to any society other than youth societies. (3) Every youth society registered under the societies act 1966 [ Act 335 ] shall, within twelve months from the date of commencement of this a ct or any term as agreed by the m inister, apply to the Registrar to be registered under this act. (4) u ntil the Registrar approves the registration of any youth society under subsection (3), the societies act 1966 shall continue to apply to such youth society.

17Youth Societies and Youth Development power of Regist rar to call for information 8. (1) The Registrar may, in relation to any application for registration under subsection 7(1) or any other provision of this a ct or regulations, call for such further information, and make such inquiries, as he may consider necessary. (2) where a person making any application fails to supply the further information called for or answer the inquiries made, under subsection (1), to the satisfaction of the Registrar, the Registrar may refuse the application. Registration and refusal to register 9. (1) u pon receipt of an application under subsection 7(1), the Registrar shall, subject to the provisions of this section and to such conditions as the Registrar may deem fit to impose, register the youth society making the application. (2) The Registrar may refuse to register a youth society if— (a) he is satisfied that such youth society is a branch of any youth society whose registration has been cancelled under paragraph 20(1) (c) or under the societies act 1966; (b) he is not satisfied that such society has complied with the provisions of this act and of the regulations made thereunder; or (c) a dispute exists among the members of such society as to the persons who are to be the office-bearers or to hold or administer any property of the society until the dispute is resolved. (3) The Registrar shall refuse to register a youth society if— (a) it appears to him that such society is unlawful under the provisions of this a ct or any other written law or is likely to be used for unlawful purposes or any purpose prejudicial to or incompatible with peace, welfare, security, public order o r morality in malaysia;

18 Laws of Malaysia Ac t 668 (b) the society has been declared by the m inister to be unlawful u nder section 33; (c) the Registrar is satisfied that the society does not exist; (d) the name under which the society is to be registered— (i) appears to the Registrar to mislead or be calculated to mislead members of the public as to the true character or purpose of the society or so nearly resembles the name of such other society as is likely to deceive the members of the public or members of either society; (ii) is identical to that of any other existing youth society; or (iii) is, in the opinion of the Registrar, undesirable; or (e) the constitution or rules of the society do not contain provisions for all matters set out in the second schedule or any other matters which the Registrar may reasonably require. (4) where the Registrar has refused to register a youth society under this section, the provisions of section 25 shall apply to that youth society. (5) a ny society that contravenes any condition imposed on it by the Registrar under subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding three thousand ringgit. certificate of registration 10. The Registrar, on registering a youth society under subsection 9(1), shall issue to the society a certificate of registration in the prescribed form and that certificate unless proved to have been cancelled, shall be conclusive evidence for all purposes that the society has been duly registered under this act.

19Youth Societies and Youth Development chapter 2 Provisions applicable to registered youth societies provisions applicable to registered youth societies 11. The following provisions shall apply to registered youth societies: (a) the movable property of any youth society, if not vested in trustees, shall be deemed to be vested for the time being in the governing body of the youth society, and may, in all civil and criminal proceedings, be described as the property of the governing body of the youth society by its proper title if known; (b) the immovable property of any youth society may, if not registered in the names of trustees, notwithstanding the provisions of any written law to the contrary, be registered in the name of the youth society, and all instruments relating to that property shall be as valid and effective as if they had been executed by a registered proprietor provided that they are executed by three office-bearers for the time being of the youth society, whose appointments are authenticated by a certificate of the Registrar, and sealed with the seal of the youth society; (c) a youth society may sue or be sued in the name of such one of its members as shall be declared to the Registrar and registered by him as the public officer of the youth society for that purpose, and, if no such person is registered, it shall be competent for any person having a claim or demand against the youth society to sue the youth society in the name of any office-bearer of the youth society; (d) no suit or proceedings by or against any youth society in any civil court shall abate or discontinue by reason of the person, by or against whom the suit or proceedings has been brought or continued, dying or ceasing to fill the character in the name whereof he has sued or been sued, but the same suit or proceedings shall be continued in the name of or against, the successor of, that person;

20 Laws of Malaysia Ac t 668 (e) (i) no judgment in any such suit against any youth society shall be put into force against the person or property of the person sued but against the property of the youth society; (ii) the application for execution shall set forth the judgment, the fact of the party against whom it has been recovered having sued or having been sued, as the case may be, on behalf of the youth society, and shall require to have the judgment enforced against the property of the youth society; (f) any member who— (i) fails to pay a subscription which, according to the rules of the youth society to which he belongs, he is bound to pay; (ii) owes money to the youth society; (iii) contrary to the rules of the youth society, takes possession of or detains, any property thereof; or (iv) injures or destroys any property thereof, may be sued for that subscription or money or for the damage accruing from that wrongful possession, detention, injury or destruction of property: Provided that if the defendant is successful in that suit and is awarded costs, he may elect to recover them from the officer in whose name the suit was brought or from the youth society and, in the latter case, may have execution against the property of the youth society; (g) any member who— (i) commits theft of, or dishonestly misappropriates or converts to his own use, any money or other property; (ii) wilfully and maliciously destroys or injures any property of th e youth society; or

21Youth Societies and Youth Development (iii) forges any deed, bond, security for money, receipt or other instrument whereby the funds of the youth society may be exposed to loss, shall be liable to be prosecuted and punished as if he were not a member; and (h) in the absence of specific provision in the rules of a youth society, any number not less than three fifths of the members of any such youth society for the time being resident in m alaysia may determine that such youth society shall be dissolved forthwith or at a time agreed, and all necessary steps shall be taken for the disposal and settlement of the property of such youth society, its claims and liabilities, according to the rules, if any, of the said youth society applicable thereto and if none, then as the governing body shall direct: Provided that if any dispute shall arise among the members of the said governing body or the members of such youth society under paragraph (h), such dispute shall be resolved in accordance to sections 28 and 29. head of youth societies 12. any member appointed or elected as a head in any youth society at the national level shall hold office for a period not exceeding six years continuously. d isqualifications applicable to office-bearers, advisers and employees of registered youth societies 13. (1) subject to subsections (2) and (4), a person shall be disqualified from being, and shall not become or remain, an office- bearer, adviser or employee of a registered youth society— (a) if he has been convicted of any offence against this act; (b) if he has been convicted of any offence under any other law and sentenced to a fine of not less than five thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term of not less than one year or to both;

22 Laws of Malaysia Ac t 668 (c) if there is in force against him any order of detention, restriction, supervision, restricted residence, banishment or deportation under any law relating to the security of or public order in m alaysia or any part thereof or to prevention of crime, preventive detention, restricted residence, banishment or immigration; (d) if he is an undischarged bankrupt; (e) if he is and has been found or declared to be of unsound mind; (f) if he dies; or (g) subject to section 14, if he is found to be disqualified by the Registrar from holding such office on any reasons as the Registrar may consider proper and necessary. (2) The disqualification of a person under paragraph (1) (b) shall cease at the end of the period of five years beginning with the date on which the person convicted was released from custody or the date on which the fine mentioned was imposed, as the case may be. (3) The disqualification of any person under paragraph (1) (c) shall cease as soon as such person is discharged from the relevant order. (4) The disqualification of any office-bearer due to bankruptcy shall cease when a receiving and adjudicating order has been revoked. (5) w here the Registrar, by notice under his hand notifies a youth society that any office-bearer, adviser or employee of a youth society has become disqualified under subsection (1), the youth society shall immediately give effect to such disqualification. (6) a ny person who is subject to any disqualification under paragraph (1) (a), (b) or (c) may apply to the Registrar to be exempted from the application of such disqualification, and the Registrar may, if he deems it is proper to do so, grant him such exemption for such period as the Registrar may specify and subject to such limitations, restrictions, terms or conditions as he may decide to impose.

23Youth Societies and Youth Development (7) any person who contravenes any provision of subsection (1), other than paragraphs (1) (e) and (f), or any limitation, restriction, term or condition imposed under subsection (6) shall be guilty of an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding ten thousand ringgit or imprisonment for a term not exceeding three years or to both. (8) f or the purposes of subsection (1), “office-bearer” includes— (a) a member of any sub-committee or other body established or formed by the governing body of a registered youth society, or by the governing body of a branch of such youth society; (b) any person who is responsible for the management of any of the affairs or the conduct of any of the activities of a registered youth society or any branch of such youth society; and (c) any person who is appointed or authorized to represent, or act on behalf of, a registered youth society or any branch of such youth society, in any matter, other than a person who, not being a member of the youth society, is engaged by the youth society to represent, or act on behalf of, the youth society or any branch of such society in his professional capacity or by contractual arrangement. (9) any person who is, immediately before the commencement of this section, an office-bearer, advisor, or employee of a registered youth society may continue to remain as such until the expiry of the current term of his office or appointment or the termination of his contract of service, as the case may be, notwithstanding that he is disqualified under subsection (1). Representations 14. (1) The Registrar may give notice to any office-bearer of a registered youth society to make representations to the Registrar before he can be disqualified by the Registrar from holding an office under paragraph 13(1) (g).

24 Laws of Malaysia Ac t 668 (2) The representations may be made before the Registrar by personal appearance or through the presentation of documents, or both. (3) The representations shall be made within thirty days from the date of the notice by the Registrar to the office-bearer. (4) any office-bearer of a registered youth society who is disqualified from holding office may appeal to the minister against the Registrar’s decision within thirty days from the date of such decision. (5) The m inister’s decision against an appeal shall be final and shall not be challenged in any court in malaysia. condition to cessation of disqualification 15. The cessation of disqualification of an office-bearer of a registered youth society shall be subject to the condition that he has yet to attain the age of forty years on the date of such cessation. i nspection of documents and evidentiary value of copies certified by Registrar 16. (1) s ubject to subsection (2), documents filed with the Registrar in pursuance to any provision of this a ct or any regulations made thereunder and any copy of any certificate, order, notice or any other document issued by the Registrar under this a ct may, on payment of the prescribed fee— (a) be inspected by any person; or (b) be obtained by any person from the Registrar: Provided that the person seeking the inspection or copy states the purpose for which he requires the same, and the Registrar is satisfied that such purpose is a lawful purpose, and that the inspection or copy is not being sought by or on behalf of an unlawful society.

25Youth Societies and Youth Development (2) No person, o ther than a person whom the Registrar is satisfied to be a member of a registered youth society, may inspect or obtain from the Registrar the accounts of such youth society or a copy thereof. (3) a copy of or an extract from any document received at the office of the Registrar certified to be true copy or extract under the hand and seal of the Registrar shall, in any proceedings be admissible in evidence without any further proof. change of name, place of business and rules of registered youth society 17. (1) No registered youth society shall— (a) change its name or place of business; or (b) amend its rules, without the prior approval of the Registrar, and an application for any such change, or amendment of its rules shall be made to the Registrar within sixty days from the date of the decision to make the change or the amendment. (2) If a registered youth society fails to comply with this section, the registered youth society and every office-bearer of such youth society shall be guilty of an offence against this a ct and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding five thousand ringgit. (3) for the purpose of this section— (a) the expression “amend” and its cognate expression shall include a new rule and a resolution rescinding a rule; and (b) the expression “rules” includes the aims and objects for which a youth society is formed, or which it may pursue, or which its funds may be applied, the qualifications for membership and f or the holding of any office, the method of appointment or election to any office, the 

26 Laws of Malaysia Ac t 668 rules by which the y outh society is to be governed and the method and manner by and in which any of the above matters may be amended. Branch of a youth society 18. (1) No registered youth society shall establish a branch without the prior written approval of the Registrar. (2) The Registrar may refuse his consent to the establishment of a branch of the registered youth society if— (a) the rules of the registered youth society do not provide for the establishment of a branch of the registered youth society; or (b) the rules of the branch of the registered youth society are such as to make the branch of the registered youth society an independent society under the control of the youth society. (3) w here a registered youth society establishes a branch without the prior approval of the Registrar, the branch so established shall be an unlawful youth society: Provided that a branch of a registered youth society established and in existence immediately before the commencement of this a ct shall not be deemed to be an unlawful youth society if within six months from the commencement of this a ct or such extended period, not being more than three months, as the Registrar may allow, such youth society applies to the Registrar in writing for his approval under this section, and in considering such application the Registrar shall have all the powers conferred upon him by subsection (2). (4) The provisions of this a ct, other than subsection 7(1), sections 9 and 10, shall apply to any branch of a registered youth society approved under this section as though such branch were a registered youth society under Part III of this a ct.

27Youth Societies and Youth Development (5) w here an approval to establish a branch has been given, such branch shall be established within three months thereof unless the Registrar has granted an extension of time. Liability of registered youth society in respect of contracts entered into by a branch 19. (1) Notwithstanding anything contained in section 18, a registered youth society shall not sue or be sued in respect of any contract entered into by any branch thereof, or by any office- bearer of such branch, unless such contract— (a) has been entered into by the branch by virtue of an express permission given to the branch by the committee or governing body of the registered youth society; or (b) is a contract within a particular class or description which the branch is generally or specifically authorized by the registered youth society to enter into, and, the provisions of paragraphs 11 (c), (d) and (e) shall be construed accordingly in their application to any suit, proceeding, judgement, or application for execution in relation to any contract entered into by a branch of a registered youth society. (2) w ithout prejudice to subsection (1), where a branch, which in this subsection is referred to as the “subordinate branch”, is under the control and responsible to another branch, which in this subsection is referred to as the “superior branch”, the superior branch may sue or be sued for contracts entered into by the subordinate branch if— (a) such contract is entered into by virtue of an express written permission given by the superior branch; or (b) such contract is a contract which is within the class or description of contracts which the subordinate branch is authorized by the superior branch to enter: Provided that a branch shall in any case be deemed to be under the control and responsible to another branch if members of the superior branch are nominated or elected or otherwise chosen from the members of the subordinate branches.

28 Laws of Malaysia Ac t 668 cancellation and suspension 20. (1) s ubject to subsection (2), the Registrar may, in the following cases, cancel the registration of any youth society registered under section 9: (a) upon its dissolution by the registered youth society to be verified in such manner as the Registrar may require or upon dissolution by the Registrar in accordance with this act; (b) on the order made by the minister under section 33; (c) if the Registrar is satisfied— (i) that the registration was effected as the result of a fraud or a mistake or misrepresentation in any material particular; (ii) that the registered youth society is likely to be used for unlawful purposes or for purposes prejudicial to or incompatible with peace, welfare, security, public order or morality in malaysia; (iii) that the registered youth society is pursuing objects other than the objects with which the youth society is registered; (iv) that the registered youth society has willfully contravened any provision of this a ct or of any regulations made thereunder or of any of its rules or that any members of the registered youth society have habitually contravened the provision of subsection 4(1) of the sedition act 1948 [Act 15] by any acts or utterances to which paragraph 3(1) (f) of that act applies; (v) that the registered youth society has ceased to exist; (vi) that the registered youth society has failed to comply with an order made by the Registrar under section 21;

29Youth Societies and Youth Development (vii) that the registered youth society has failed to comply with the provisions of section 31; or (viii) that the registered youth society has contravened the provisions of section 91; and (d) upon the registered youth society becoming unlawful under subsection 23(6) for failure to furnish written information. (2) w here the Registrar proposes to cancel the registration of any registered youth society under paragraph (1) (c) the Registrar— (a) shall notify one or more of the office-bearers of such youth society of his intention to cancel the registration of that youth society; and (b) shall give him or them an opportunity to submit reasons in writing within thirty days from the date of the notification why the registration should not be cancelled. (3) The Registrar may, during the period specified in paragraph (2) (b), by order in writing suspend all or any of the activities of the youth society— (a) where he thinks it necessary to do so— (i) in the public interest; or (ii) in the interest of the registered youth society; or (b) to restrain the youth society from further violating any provision of this act, any regulations made thereunder or any rules of the youth society. (4) an order made under subsection (3)— (a) may contain such conditions as the Registrar deems necessary or expedient; and (b) shall continue in force until the order is revoked or the registration of the youth society is cancelled.

30 Laws of Malaysia Ac t 668 (5) an office-bearer or any pe rson managing or assisting in the management of a youth society who fails to comply with an order made under subsection (3) commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding five thousand ringgit, and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not exceeding five hundred ringgit for each day during which the offence continues after conviction. (6) where the Registrar cancels the registration of any youth society under this section or under any other provision of this act, the provisions of section 25 shall apply to that youth society and such cancellation shall be published in the Gazette . power of Registrar to make certain orders in respect of registered youth societies 21. (1) w here the Registrar is satisfied that it is necessary to do so in the interest of any registered youth society, or in the interest of public order, safety or security or otherwise in the public interest, the Registrar may at any time, after giving the youth society an opportunity to make representations to him, make an order in writing— (a) requiring the youth society, within the time specified in the order, to provide in its rules or constitution that the office-bearers of the youth society shall be malaysian citizens, and, consequently, requiring the youth society to remove from office all persons who, not being malaysian citizens, were office-bearers of the youth society immediately before the making of the order; or (b) prohibiting the youth society from having, directly or indirectly, any affiliation, connection, communication, or other dealing whatsoever, with any society, organization or other body whatsoever outside malaysia, or with any authority, governmental or otherwise, in any country, territory or place outside malaysia. (2) The Registrar may at any time, after giving a registered youth society an opportunity to make represent ations to him, 

31Youth Societies and Youth Development make an order in writin g requiring the youth society, within the time specified in the order, to amend its rules or constitution so as to— (a) have the same conform to, or be consistent and in accordance with the provisions of this act or regulations made thereunder; or (b) remove any ambiguity or vagueness, or provide for greater clarity and preciseness of meaning in any provision; or (c) provide for any other matter which the Registrar may deem necessary, reasonable or expedient to require. (3) w here the Registrar makes an order under subsection (1) or (2) he may include in that order, or make or give at any time, any consequential or ancillary requirements or directions in relation to such order as he may deem necessary or expedient to make or give. (4) The Registrar may, on application in writing made to him by a registered youth society, extend the time provided by him to the youth society in any order made under subsection (1) or (2) if he is satisfied that the youth society has given good grounds in its application and it would be just and proper to grant such extension. (5) f or the purposes of subsection (1), “office-bearer” includes the persons specified in paragraphs 13(8) (a), (b) and (c). (6) any youth society which contravenes any order given by the Registrar under subsection (1) or (2) or any requirement or direction made or given by him under subsection (3) commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding fifteen thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding one year or to both. information to be furnished by registered youth societies 22. Every registered youth society shall, within sixty days after the holding of its annual gener al meeting or if no annual general 

32 Laws of Malaysia Ac t 668 meeting is held, within sixty days after the end of each calendar year, forward to the Registrar— (a) a true and complete copy of any amendments to the rules of such youth society made since the date of registration or of the last return; (b) a true and complete list of office-bearers and the number of members of such youth society residing in m alaysia or present therein at the date of such return or, if such youth society has no office-bearers residing or present in malaysia, the name, address and occupation of the person or persons in malaysia authorized to act for or on behalf of the youth society and the number of members as aforesaid together with a true and complete list of the office-bearers of all the branches, if any, of the youth society; (c) the address or the place of business of the youth society; (d) the accounts of the last financial year of the youth society together with a balance sheet showing the financial position at the close of the last financial year of the youth society; (e) the name and address of any society, association, or any other body of persons, incorporated or unincorporated, outside m alaysia to which the youth society is in any way associated or affiliated; (f) the description of any money or property, any pecuniary benefit or advantage received by the youth society from any source outside m alaysia and other relevant particulars; and (g) such other information as the Registrar may from time to time require. Registrar to approve audit and provisional order for dissolution 23. (1) The Registrar may, at any time by notice, order any registered youth society to furnish him— (a) a true and complete copy of the rules of any such youth society in force at the date of such order;

33Youth Societies and Youth Development (b) a true and complete list of office-bearers and members of any such youth society or of any branch of any such youth society residing in m alaysia or present therein at the date of such order; (c) a true and complete return of the number of meetings held by any such youth society or branch in malaysia within the period of six months immediately preceding such order stating the place where such meetings were held; (d) duly audited accounts; (e) the name and address of any society, association or any other body of persons, incorporated or unincorporated, outside m alaysia affiliated to the youth society and other particulars relating thereto; (f) the description of any money or property, any pecuniary benefit or advantage received by the youth society from any source outside m alaysia and other particulars relating thereto; or (g) such other information as the Registrar may from time to time require. (2) a notice given under subsection (1) shall specify the time being not less than fourteen days within which the information shall be supplied: Provided that the Registrar may at his discretion, on application made to him and on good cause being shown, grant an extension of time. (3) f or the purpose of this section, “duly audited” means audited by an auditor approved by the Registrar, and the Registrar may give such approval and the auditor so approved shall make a report on the accounts examined by him in such form as the Registrar may require. (4) w here the particulars required to be furnished under subsection (1) are not furnished within the time stated in the notice, or any extension allowed by the Registrar, the Registrar may make a provisional order for the dissolution of the youth society.

34 Laws of Malaysia Ac t 668 (5) If before the expiration of thirty days from the date of such provisional order the particulars required to be furnished under subsection (1) are so furnished, the Registrar may cancel the order. (6) u pon the expiration of thirty days from the date of such provisional order or if there is an appeal where such appeal is dismissed, the said order shall become absolute and the registered youth society shall be deemed to be an unlawful youth society and its registration shall be cancelled. (7) a ny registered youth society which, on the ground of its failure to comply with an order under this section, has had its registration cancelled under section 20 shall not be entitled to apply for registration until such order has been complied with or unless it is proven to the satisfaction of the Registrar that it is impossible to comply with the order. persons responsible for supplying information 24. (1) The obligations imposed upon registered youth societies by sections 22 and 23 shall be binding upon every office-bearer and upon every person managing or assisting in the management of any such youth society in malaysia: Provided always that any such office-bearer or other person shall not be so bound unless he has been served with the order given by the Registrar. (2) where a notice, order, or other document is served upon a person who has ceased to be an office-bearer of a youth society, he shall forthwith deliver such notice, order or document upon an existing office-bearer of the youth society, or if unknown, shall return it to the Registrar who sent it, and any person who fails to do so commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding three thousand ringgit. (3) If any registered youth society fails to comply with the whole or part of any order given under sections 22 and 23, each of the persons mentioned in subsection (1) who has been served with the order commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding five thousand ringgit unless he establishes to the satisfaction of the court that he has exercised 

35Youth Societies and Youth Development due diligence and has failed to comply with the order for reasons beyond his control. (4) If any information supplied to the Registrar in compliance with an order given under sections 22 and 23 is false, incorrect or incomplete in any material particular, the person who has supplied such information commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding two thousand ringgit unless he establishes to the satisfaction of the court that he had good reasons to believe that the information was true, correct and complete. consequence of order of the minister under section 33, refusal of the Registrar to register a youth society under section 9 and cancellation of registration of a youth society under section 20 25. (1) u pon the making of an order by the m inister under section 33 or upon the refusal of the Registrar to register a youth society under section 9, or upon the cancellation of the registration of a youth society under any provision of this act, the following consequences shall apply: (a) the property of the youth society shall forthwith vest in the director General of Insolvency, for the purpose of winding up the affairs of the youth society; (b) the d irector General of Insolvency shall proceed to wind up the affairs of the youth society, and after satisfying and providing for all debts and liabilities of the youth society and the costs of the winding up shall pay the surplus assets, if any— (i) on the direction by the m inister, if the registration was refused or cancelled by virtue of an order under section 33 or on grounds stated in paragraph 9(3) (a) or subparagraph 20(1) (c)(ii) or if the members of the society so request, such surplus assets be paid to the consolidated fund; and (ii) in all other cases, to members of the youth society according to the rules of the youth society, or if there be no such rules, then the director General of Insolvency shall prepare a scheme for the application of such surplus assets for the approval of the high court;

36 Laws of Malaysia Ac t 668 (c) the application for approv al of such scheme shall be made by way of originating summons and may be amended by the court in such way as it thinks proper under the circumstances of the case; (d) upon the approval of the c ourt to such scheme or amended scheme being obtained, the surplus assets, the subject of such scheme shall be held and applied by the d irector General of Insolvency upon the terms and to the purposes prescribed in the order of the court; and (e) for the purposes of the winding up the affairs of the youth society, the d irector General of Insolvency shall have all the powers under any written law relating to bankruptcy or winding up of companies for the purpose of the realization of property under this act. (2) The Registrar may, with the consent of the m inister, suspend the operation of this section to such extent and for such period as he may think expedient. (3) The Registrar or the d irector General of Insolvency may require— (a) the governing body of the youth society, being the governing body existing immediately before the coming into effect of subsection (1) in relation to that youth society; (b) any member of such governing body; or (c) any person who was then or at any time previously an office-bearer, member or employee of that youth society, to furnish to the Registrar or the d irector General of Insolvency, as the case may be, or to such other person as the Registrar or the director General of Insolvency may specify, any information in relation to the property, affairs, business, accounts or books of that youth society, or any other matter relating to that youth society, which may be required for the purposes of this section.

37Youth Societies and Youth Development (4) subject to subsection (5), it shall not be an offence under this a ct for anything done by any person mentioned under subsection (3) in complying with such subsection provided that such thing is otherwise lawfully done. (5) any person mentioned under subsection (3) who fails to comply with any requirement of the Registrar or the d irector General of Insolvency under that subsection, or does anything outside the scope of, or contrary to, any authorization of the Registrar or the director General of Insolvency under subsection (3), commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding ten thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding five years or to both. (6) for the purpose of subsection (3), “office-bearer” includes any person referred to in paragraphs 13(8) (a), (b) and (c). (7) f or the avoidance of doubt, it is hereby declared that where the property of a registered youth society vests in the director General of Insolvency under paragraph (1) (a), the property of every branch of such youth society, regardless whether it is a lawful or an unlawful branch, shall also vest in the d irector General of Insolvency and this section shall accordingly apply to every such branch and its property. a pplication of section 25 to unlawful branch of registered youth societies 26. where a branch of a registered youth society— (a) has been declared unlawful by an order of the minister under section 33; (b) is notified by the Registrar to the director General of Insolvency to be an unlawful youth society under subsection 18(3); or (c) has, otherwise howsoever, become an unlawful society under subsection 86(1), the provisions of section 25 shall apply to the branch of the registered youth society and its property in the same manner as they apply to a registered youth society and its property, and the 

38 Laws of Malaysia Ac t 668 reference to the governing body of the registered youth society under subsections 25(3) and (5) shall be accordingly construed as a reference to the governing body of the branch concerned. v esting of property of a youth society whose registration has been cancelled in a new registered youth society 27. (1) any new youth society established in replacing the registered youth society which has been cancelled by the Registrar under section 20, may apply in writing to the director General of Insolvency for vesting all assets, debts and liabilities of the old youth society and its branch which has already vested to the director General of Insolvency under paragraph 25(1) (a) to the new registered youth society. (2) Notwithstanding subparagraph 25(1) (b)(ii), the d irector General of Insolvency may, if he is satisfied that— (a) the new youth society has been registered under this act; (b) the constitution and the rules of the new youth society are similar to the constitution and the rules of the old youth society; (c) the majority of persons who were lawful members of the old youth society immediately before the cancellation of its registration are members of the new youth society; and (d) the governing body of the new youth society has given written undertaking that the new society will assume responsibility for all the aforesaid debts and liabilities then existing, apply to the high court for an order for vesting all the assets, debts and liabilities of the old youth society and all its branches in the new youth society. (3) The c ourt may, if it is satisfied as to all the matters mentioned under subsection (2) approve such application as applied by the d irector General of Insolvency with such modifications or variations as deem fit and expedient.

39Youth Societies and Youth Development (4) The application shall be made by way of originating summons which shall be published in the Gazette and advertised in newspapers in the national language and in English, circulating in malaysia. (5) a ny person likely to be affected or aggrieved by the decision of the court, in his capacity as a member of either the old or new youth society or as a creditor of the old youth society may apply to the c ourt to appear and make representation thereon in accordance with *the Rules of the high court. (6) a ny person who was a lawful member of the old youth society immediately before the cancellation of its registration and who is not a member of the new youth society who does not object to the application of the d irector General of Insolvency shall be discharged from all debts and liabilities of the old youth society and all its branches upon the making of the order sought by the director General of Insolvency. (7) u pon a vesting order being made by the c ourt under subsection (3), all the property comprised therein shall vest accordingly in the new youth society without any further conveyance, transfer or assignment. (8) It shall be lawful for the director General of Insolvency to do or take such action as may be necessary to manage any property or discharge the debts and liabilities of the old youth society although an application under subsection (2) is pending in the court. (9) The d irector General of Insolvency shall publish such decision under subsection (3) in the Gazette and advertise it in newspapers in the national language and in English, circulating in malaysia, and thereupon the director General of Insolvency shall be fully discharged from all his responsibilities and liabilities in the matter. (10) a ll costs and expenses incurred by the d irector General of Insolvency in the matter shall be paid out of the assets of the old youth society and all its branches, in priority to all other debts and liabilities. *NOTE—The Rule of high court 1980 [ P .U. (A) 50/1980] are repealed by Rules of court 2012 [P .U.(A) 205/2012]— see order 1 rules 1 and order 94 rules 1 of Rules of court 2012 [P .U.(A) 205/2012] w.e.f. 1 august 2012.

40 Laws of Malaysia Ac t 668 (11) all deeds, bonds, agreements, instruments and working arrangements subsisting immediately before the publication in the Gazette of the decision of the c ourt under subsection (3) shall be of full force and effect against or in favour of the new youth society and enforceable as fully and effectually against the new youth society. (12) The provisions of subsections 25(3), (5) and (6) shall apply in relation to this section in the same manner as they apply in relation to section 25. chapter 3 Disputes and Dispute Resolution Panel disputes 28. (1) any unresolved dispute in any youth society may be referred to the Registrar for his decision. (2) a ny disputing party aggrieved by the decision made by the Registrar shall appeal to the dispute Resolution Panel. dispute Resolution panel 29. (1) The dispute Resolution Panel shall consist of— (a) the s ecretary General of the m inistry responsible for youth as the chairman; and (b) two other members appointed by the minister. (2) In exercising its duty and function in making a decision, the Panel may direct the disputing party to disclose any document or appear before it or give any direction as it deems fit. chapter 4 Appeals appeals 30. (1) any registered youth society, office-bearer or member of such youth society or any other person who is aggrieved by 

41Youth Societies and Youth Development the decision o f the d ispute Resolution Panel under section 29 or any decision of the Registrar in any of the following cases: (a) cancellation of the registration of the youth society under section 20; (b) refusal to register the youth society under section 9; (c) refusal to grant exemption under subsection 13(6) to a qualified person to hold office in any youth society; (d) refusal to approve the change of name or place of business of the youth society, or amendment of its rules under section 17; (e) refusal to approve the establishment of a branch of the youth society under section 18; (f) cancellation of the registration of the youth society under section 31; (g) order prohibiting non-citizens from holding office in a youth society or prohibiting affiliation, connection, communication or other dealing with any society outside malaysia and other matters mentioned in subsection 21(1); (h) order to amend rules or constitution of the youth society under subsection 21(2); (i) refusal to approve an auditor or approving an auditor under subsection 23(3) who is unacceptable to the youth society; (j) making a provisional order for the dissolution of the youth society under subsection 23(4); or (k) refusal to grant permission under section 13 to become an office-bearer, may, within thirty days from the date of the decision of the d ispute Resolution Panel or the Registrar, appeal against the decision to the minis ter.

42 Laws of Malaysia Ac t 668 (2) The minister may confirm, reject or vary the decision of the dispute Resolution Panel or the Registrar and his decision shall be final. chapter 5 General Provisions Registered youth societies to act in fulfilment of the constitution 31. It shall be the duty of every registered youth society in carrying out its activities and in conducting its affairs to ensure that they are in accordance with, and conducive to the fulfillment of and adherence to, the provisions of the federal constitution and the s tate c onstitution, and where any of the activities or affairs of any registered youth society is in any manner violative of, or derogatory to, or militates against, or shows disregard for— (a) the system of democratic government headed by a constitutional sovereign of m alaysia, and in the states, by the respective constitutional Rulers or y ang di-Pertua Negeri; (b) the position of Islam as the religion of m alaysia, with other religions being practised in peace and harmony; (c) the use of the National language for official purposes; (d) the position of the malays and of the natives of the states of sabah and sarawak; or (e) the legitimate interests of the other communities, as provided under the federal constitution or any of the state constitution, the Registrar may cancel the registration of the youth society after giving the youth society an opportunity to make representations to him. y outh societies deemed to be established in malaysia 32. (1) s ubject to subsection (2) a youth society shall be deemed to be established in m alaysia, although it is organized and has its headquarters or chief place of business outside malaysia, if any of its office-bearers or members resides in malaysia or is 

43Youth Societies and Youth Development present therein, or if any person in malaysia manages or assists in the management of such youth society or solicits or collects money or subscription in its behalf. (2) No youth society shall be deemed to be so established, if and so long as— (a) it is organized and is operating wholly outside malaysia; (b) no office, place of business or place of meeting is maintained or used in malaysia by such youth society or by any person in its behalf; (c) no register of all or any of the members of such youth society is kept in malaysia; or (d) no subscriptions are collected or solicited in m alaysia by the youth society or by any person on its behalf. power of the minister to declare a youth society unlawful 33. (1) The m inister may, by order, declare unlawful any youth society or branch or class or description of any youth societies which in his opinion, is or is being used for purposes prejudicial to or incompatible with the interest of the security of malaysia or any part thereof, public order or morality. (2) a n order made under this section shall be published in the Gazette and shall operate to cancel immediately the registration of any such youth society, if already registered under this a ct and no youth society against which an order made under this section applies shall be so registered. (3) The provisions of section 25 shall apply in respect of a youth society affected by the order made under this section. Pa r t Iv youTh dEvEloPmENT policies in relation to youth development 34. (1) The minister shall be responsible for providing or issuing policies or directives in respect of matters relating to youth 

44 Laws of Malaysia Ac t 668 development from the aspect of education, research and human resource and in providing or issuing s uch policies or directives, the minister shall consult the state authority. (2) w ithout prejudice to the generality of subsection (1), the policies or directives may be made for all or any of the following purposes: (a) youth knowledge development; (b) youth attitude development; (c) youth leadership and organisational development; (d) youth vocational and entrepreneurial development; (e) inculcation of a healthy lifestyle in the youth; (f) facilities for social interaction for the youth; (g) youth partnership in development; and (h) international relations and networking amongst the youth. (3) The minister may, from time to time, give the director General directions of a general character, and not inconsistent with the provisions of this a ct, as to the exercise of the powers and discretion conferred on the director General, and the duties required to be discharged by the director General under this act and regulations made under this a ct, in relation to all matters on youth development, and the director General shall give effect to every such directions. Pa r t v Na TIoNal youTh coNsul Ta TIvE couNcIl national y outh consultative council 35. a council by the name of “National y outh c onsultative council” is established. function of the council 36. The function of the c ouncil is to act as a consultative body in matters relating to youth development.

45Youth Societies and Youth Development members of the council 37. (1) The council shall consist of the following members: (a) the minister as chairman; (b) the s ecretary General of the m inistry responsible for youth matters; (c) the director General; (d) a representative who is in charge of youth matters of each state Government; (e) a representative from the m inistry responsible for f ederal Territories; (f) not more than ten representatives from the government agencies dealing with youth matters to be determined by the minister; (g) not more than twenty five officers of the m inistry responsible for youth matters to be appointed by the minister; (h) all the members of the supreme council and Executive committee of the main body of youth societies at the national level; and (i) not more than twenty persons who in the opinion of the m inister, are likely to contribute effectively to youth development, to be appointed by the minister. (2) The minister may appoint temporarily any member of the c ouncil to perform the functions of the c hairman for the period when the c hairman is, by reason of illness, leave of absence or any other reason, unable to perform his functions. (3) a member appointed as the c hairman under subsection (2) shall during the period in which he is performing the functions of the chairman under this section, be dee med to be the chairman.

46 Laws of Malaysia Ac t 668 council may invite othe rs to conferences or meetings 38. The c ouncil may invite any person to attend any conference or meeting of the c ouncil for the purpose of advising or assisting it on any matter under discussion. t enure of office 39. (1) subject to such conditions as may be specified in his instrument of appointment, a member of the c ouncil appointed under paragraph 37(1) (i) shall hold office for a period not exceeding two years. (2) a member of the council appointed under paragraph 37(1) (i) shall be eligible to be reappointed. Revocation of appointment and resignation 40. (1) The m inister may at any time revoke the appointment of any member of the council appointed under paragraph 37(1) (i) without assigning any reason for the revocation. (2) a member of the c ouncil may at any time resign from his appointment by giving fourteen days notice in writing to the minister. v acation of office 41. The office of a member appointed under paragraph 37(1) (i) shall be vacated, if— (a) there has been proved against him or he has been convicted for any offence— (i) involving fraud, bribe, dishonest or moral turpitude; or (ii) punishable with imprisonment, in itself only or in addition to or in l ieu of a fine, for more than two years;

47Youth Societies and Youth Development (b) he is of unsound mind or is otherwise incapable of discharging his duties; (c) he becomes a bankrupt; (d) he has not attended three conferences consecutively without the chairman’s consent; (e) there has been in force against him an order of detention, restricted residence, deportation or similar order under any law relating to the security or public order; (f) his resignation is accepted by the minister; (g) his appointment is revoked by the minister; or (h) he dies. filling of vacancies 42. w here a person ceases to be a member of the c ouncil, the m inister may appoint another person to fill the vacancy and any person so appointed shall hold office for the remaining period. committees 43. (1) The council may establish any committee as it considers necessary or expedient to assist it in the performance of its functions. (2) The c ouncil may elect any of its members to be the chairman of the committee. (3) The c hairman of a committee may, with the consent of the council appoint any person to be a member of a committee. (4) a committee may invite any person to attend any meeting of the committee for the purpose of advising or assisting it on any matter under discussion but that person shall not be entitled to vote at the conference, meeting or deliberation.

48 Laws of Malaysia Ac t 668 secretariat 44. (1) a joint secretariat of the c ouncil consisting of officers from the department responsible for youth and the main body of youth societies at the national level shall be responsible in carrying out the functions of the council. (2) The m inister shall appoint a public officer to be the secretary to the joint secretariat who shall be responsible for the overall administration and management of the day to day affairs of the council and the joint secretariat. Remuneration or allowances 45. The c hairman and the members of the c ouncil or a committee and any person invited to attend the conference of the council or a meeting of the committee may be paid such remuneration or allowance at such rates as the minister may determine after consultation with the minister of finance. conference of council 46. (1) The c ouncil shall convene its conference not less than twice a year at such time and place as may be appointed by the chairman. (2) The quorum for the conference shall not be less than half of the total filled members of the council. (3) a ny decision of the c ouncil shall be made by way of consultation. disqualification to be a member 47. (1) a ny member of the c ouncil representing a youth society affiliated to the national main body of youth societies at the national level who no longer holds office in his respective society or the society has been cancelled under this a ct, shall be deemed to have ceased from being a member of th e council.

49Youth Societies and Youth Development (2) a ny member of the c ouncil shall be deemed to have ceased from being a member of the council if he no longer holds office in the main body of youth societies at the national level. allocation of fund 48. The m inister after consultation with the m inister of f inance, may approve an annual allocation of fund for the council to perform its functions. Pa r t vI maIN body of youTh socIETIEs a T ThE Na TIoNal lEvEl chapter 1 General Provisions main body of youth societies at the national level 49. (1) The malaysian y outh council shall be the main body of youth societies at the national level which affiliates and coordinates all youth societies affiliated to it. (2) The objectives of the main body of youth societies at the national level are— (a) to promote and encourage youth societies to play positive and effective roles towards the community and the country; (b) to foster and create relationship, co-operation, understanding and friendship between youth societies and youths or with youth societies abroad; (c) to promote balanced development of youth societies in various aspects; and (d) to enhance responsible attitude, patriotism and volunteerism among youth societies.

50 Laws of Malaysia Ac t 668 f unctions of the main body of youth societies at the national level 50. The functions of the main body of youth societies at the national level are— (a) to convey the voice of the youth to the government; (b) to cooperate with the government in implementing programmes and activities related to youth development from the aspect of education, research and human resource development; and (c) to perform such other functions under this act. annual report 51. The main body of youth societies at the national level shall, on or before 31 m arch of each year, submit to the m inister a report of its programmes and activities carried out in the previous year and shall give any further information as required by the minister. chapter 2 Financial allocation and assistance a pplication for annual allocation of main body of youth societies at the national level 52. (1) The main body of youth societies at the national level may apply to the m inister for financial allocation and assistance for the purpose of carrying out its functions under section 50. (2) for the purpose of subsection (1), the main body of youth societies at the national level shall prepare the estimation of expenses for every financial year. (3) The main body of youth societies at the national level shall submit to the m inister an annual estimation of expenses for the following year in any manner and contains any particular as determined by the minister.

51Youth Societies and Youth Development approval of financial allocation and assistance 53. u pon receiving an application under section 52, the m inister may, after consultation with the m inister of f inance approve any financial allocation or assistance subject to such terms and conditions as may be deemed necessary. accounts and audit of main body of youth societies at the national level 54. (1) The main body of youth societies at the national level shall cause proper accounts and other records relating to its operation be maintained, and shall prepare a statement of account for every financial year that is from 1 January until 31 december. (2) The statement of accounts of the main body of youth societies at the national level shall be audited every year by an auditor appointed by the main body of youth societies at the national level. (3) The statement of accounts of the main body of youth societies at the national level shall be audited within six months from the end of every financial year and during such period, the main body of youth societies at the national level shall submit a copy of the statement of accounts in the manner required by the minister to be submitted to him together with a copy of an auditor’s report prepared by the appointed auditor. Pa r t vII malays Ia N IN s TITu TE fo R RE s Ea Rch IN you Th dEvEloPmENT chapter 1 General Provisions malaysian institute for Research in y outh development 55. (1) a body corporate by the name of “ m alaysian Institute for Research In y outh development” is established with perpetual succession and a common seal.

52 Laws of Malaysia Ac t 668 (2) The Institute may sue and be sued in its corporate name. common seal 56. (1) The common seal of the Institute shall bear a device as approved by the Institute and the seal may from time to time be broken, changed, altered and made anew as the Institute thinks fit. (2) The common seal shall be kept in the custody of the chief Executive officer or any other person authorized by either the c hief Executive o fficer or by such other person authorized by the chief Executive officer in writing. (3) a ll deeds, documents and other instruments purporting to be sealed with the common seal and authenticated in accordance with subsection (2) shall, until the contrary is proved, be deemed to have been validly executed. (4) a ny deed, document and other instrument which, if executed by a person not being a body corporate, is not required to be under seal may in like manner be executed by a member of the Institute or an employee of the Institute authorized in that behalf. (5) The common seal of the Institute shall be officially and judicially noted. functions of the institute 57. The functions of the Institute shall be— (a) to act as the national youth development research centre; (b) to gather, manage and disseminate information and maintain records of all relevant matters relating to youth development; (c) to conduct, facilitate or fund research relevant to youth development;

53Youth Societies and Youth Development (d) to pro vide technical, advisory, consultancy and related services in respect of youth development; (e) to establish and maintain liaison and cooperation with other related institutions within and outside malaysia in the interest of enhancing youth development; (f) to analyse, evaluate and make recommendations on youth activities organized by youth societies, government bodies, non-government organizations or any other private sector organizations; (g) to carry out educational and awareness programmes for the promotion of youth development; (h) to cooperate, coordinate and participate in youth development programmes or activities related to research organized by national or international organizations; and (i) to do such other things as it deems fit to enable it to perform its functions effectively or which are incidental to the performance of its functions. powers of the institute 58. (1) The Institute shall have the power to do all things necessary or expedient for or in connection with the performance of its functions. (2) w ithout prejudice to the generality of subsection (1), the powers of the Institute shall include power— (a) to enter into contracts; (b) to acquire, purchase, take, hold and enjoy movable and immovable property of every description; (c) to convey, assign, surrender, yield up, charge, mortgage, demise, reassign, transfer or otherwise dispose of, or deal with any movable or immovable property or any interest therein vested in the Institute;

54 Laws of Malaysia Ac t 668 (d) to conduct or coordinate activities relating to research on youth development and other related services; (e) to impose fees or charges for services rendered by the Institute; (f) to collect and receive moneys in relation to any activity or services rendered by the Institute or usage of the facilities of the Institute; (g) to enter into any negotiation and agreement or consideration as it deems fit in performing its functions; (h) to acquire, hold, dispose of or grant rights relating to any research findings conducted by or on behalf of the Institute or in relation to any research findings conducted by any person or organisations; (i) to assign any person or body to conduct research or development or both; (j) to conduct and coordinate any activity as it deems fit for the purpose of protecting and developing the malaysian youth; and (k) to do all things expedient or necessary for or incidental to the performance of its functions under this act. (3) The Institute may, in exercising any of its functions which related to business activities for gaining profit or interest through a company that may be incorporated from time to time under the companies act 1965 [ Act 125 ] and such company may only be incorporated on approval by the minister with the consent of the minister of finance. (4) The m inister may make regulations prescribing any activity or interest or prescribing the terms and conditions of any activity or interest of any member, officer or servant of the Institute in relation to any company established under subsection (2) or to any company, industry or entrepreneurship. (5) a ny omission or non compliance and any act done or purport to be done contrary to, the provision of such regulations is an offence under this a ct and the accused shall, on conviction, be 

55Youth Societies and Youth Development liable to a fine not less than two hundred fifty thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding three years or to both. chapter 2 Board of Directors of Malaysian Institute For Research In Youth Development the Board of directors 59. a b oard of d irectors to be known as the b oard of d irectors of malaysian Institute for Research In y outh development is constituted. membership of the Board 60. (1) The b oard shall consist of the following members who shall be appointed by the minister: (a) a chairman; (b) the director General; (c) the chief Executive officer; and (d) seven members who, in the opinion of the m inister, have experience and shown capacity and professionalism in matters relating to youth development from the aspect of education, research or human resource, or to be otherwise suitable for appointment because of their special knowledge and experience, one of whom shall be a representative from the main body of youth societies at the national level. (2) The m inister may appoint any member of the b oard to exercise the functions of the chairman— (a) if the chairman is unable, by reason of illness, leave of absence or any other cause, to perform his functions; or

56 Laws of Malaysia Ac t 668 (b) during any period of vacancy in the office of the chairman. (3) a member appointed as the chairman under subsection (2) shall, during the period in which he is performing the functions of the chairman under this section, be deemed to be the chairman. (4) The chief Executive officer shall be the secretary of the board. (5) five members of the board shall form a quorum at any meeting of the board. (6) subject to this act, the board may determine its own procedure. (7) The provisions of the Third s chedule shall apply to the board. powers and functions of the Board 61. (1) The b oard shall be the executive body of the Institute and may exercise all the powers conferred on the Institute, save as otherwise provided by this a ct or any regulations made under this act. (2) The functions of the b oard shall include the carrying on of all such activities and the doing of all such things as are necessary or advantageous and proper for the government, control and administration of the Institute. t enure of office 62. (1) subject to such conditions as may be specified in his instrument of appointment, a member of the board shall hold office for a term not exceeding three years. (2) a member of the b oard shall be eligible for reappointment.

57Youth Societies and Youth Development Revocation of appointment and resignation 63. (1) The minister may at any time revoke the appointment of any member of the board other than members under paragraphs 60(1) (b) and (c), without assigning any reason for the revocation. (2) a member of the b oard, other than members under paragraphs 60(1) (b) and (c), may at any time resign from his appointment by giving a notice in writing to the minister. v acation of office 64. The office of a member of the board shall be vacated— (a) if he dies; (b) if there has been proved against him, or he has been convicted on, a charge in respect of— (i) an offence involving fraud, dishonesty or moral turpitude; (ii) an offence under any law relating to corruption; or (iii) any other offence punishable with imprisonment,in itself only or in addition to or in lieu of a fine, for more than two years; (c) if his conduct, whether in connection with his duties as a member of the board or otherwise, has been such as to bring discredit on the board; (d) if he becomes a bankrupt; (e) if he is of unsound mind or is otherwise incapable of discharging his duties; (f) in the case of the c hairman, if he absents himself from a meeting of the board without leave of the minister;

58 Laws of Malaysia Ac t 668 (g) in the case of a member of the board in paragraph 60(1) (d), if he absents himself from three consecutive meetings of the b oard without leave in writing of the chairman; (h) if his appointment is revoked by the minister; (i) if his resignation is accepted by the minister; or (j) if the minister is satisfied that he absents himself from three consecutive meetings of the Institute without leave or reasonable excuse. delegation of functions and powers of the Board 65. (1) The b oard may, subject to such conditions, limitations or restrictions as it thinks fit, delegate any of its functions or powers to any member or any committee of its members. (2) any function and power delegated under this section shall be performed and exercised in the name and on behalf of the board. (3) a delegation under this section shall not preclude the b oard itself from performing or exercising at any time any of the delegated functions or powers. committees of the Board 66. (1) The board may establish any committee as it considers necessary or expedient to assist it in the performance of its functions under this act. (2) The board may appoint any person to be a member of any committee established under subsection (1). (3) a committee established under this section may elect any of its members to be a chairman and may regulate its own procedure and, in exercising its powers under this subsection, the committee shall be subject to and act in accordance with any direction given to the committee by the board.

59Youth Societies and Youth Development (4) m eetings of a committee established under this section shall be held at such time and place as the chairman of the committee may determine, subject to subsection (3). (5) a committee may invite any person who is not a member of the committee to attend any of its meeting, for the purpose of advising it on any matter under discussion but that person shall not be entitled to vote at the meeting. (6) members of the committee or any person invited under subsection (5) to attend any meeting of a committee may be paid any allowances and other expenses as the b oard may determine. (7) a member of a committee shall hold office for such term as may be specified in his letter of appointment and is eligible for reappointment. (8) The b oard may revoke the appointment of any member of a committee without assigning any reason for the revocation. (9) a member of a committee may at any time resign by giving a notice in writing to the chairman of the board. Remuneration and allowances 67. m embers of the b oard, other than the c hief Executive o fficer, may be paid from the fund such remuneration or allowance as the m inister may, after consultation with the m inister of f inance, determine. power of minister to give directions 68. (1) The board shall be responsible to the minister. (2) The m inister may give to the b oard directions of a general character relating to functions and powers of the b oard and the board shall give effect to such directions.

60 Laws of Malaysia Ac t 668 v alidity of an act and proceedings 69. No act or proceedings taken under this act shall be questioned on the ground of— (a) the existence of any vacancy in the membership, or defect in the establishment of the board; or (b) the existence of any omission, defect or irregularity which has not affected the merits of the case. chapter 3 Provisions relating to employees chief executive officer 70. (1) The m inister shall appoint a c hief Executive o fficer on such terms and conditions as the m inister may determine to carry out the functions of the Institute. (2) The c hief Executive o fficer shall be responsible for the overall administration and management of the functions and the day to day affairs of the Institute. (3) The chief Executive officer shall have general control of the other officers of the Institute. (4) The chief Executive officer shall perform such further duties as the m inister and the b oard may direct from time to time. (5) In discharging his duties, the c hief Executive o fficer shall act under the general authority and directions of the board. appointment of officers 71. (1) The chief Executive officer, with the approval of the b oard, may appoint such number of officers as he thinks desirable and necessary, who shall be paid such remuneration, allowances and benefits, and whose appointment shall be, on such terms as the board considers appropriate for carrying o ut the functions of the Institute.

61Youth Societies and Youth Development (2) The c hief Executive o fficer shall, with the approval of the b oard, determine the terms of service of its officers subject to the regulation and consent of the minister of finance. chapter 4 Finance establishment of fund 72. (1) a f und to be called the “ m alaysian Institute f or Research In y outh development fund” is established. (2) The fund shall consist of— (a) such sums as may be provided by Parliament from time to time; (b) research grant from the minister; (c) all moneys received by the Institute by way of grants; (d) all moneys derived from the sale, disposal, lease or hire of, or any other dealing with any property vested in or acquired by the Institute; (e) all moneys derived as income from investments by the Institute; and (e) all other moneys lawfully received by the Institute. expenditure to be charged on fund 73. The fund shall be expended for the following purposes: (a) paying for the remuneration, allowances and other expenses of the members and officers of the Institute, including the granting of loans and advances, superannuation allowances, retirement benefits, pensions and gratuities; (b) paying an expenditure lawfully incurred by the Institute including legal fees and costs and other fees and costs;

62 Laws of Malaysia Ac t 668 (c) paying any other expenses, costs or other payments properly incurred, accepted or deemed fit by the Institute in the performance of its functions; (d) acquiring land and any assets, and erecting buildings, and carrying out any other works in the performance of its functions; and (e) generally, paying any expenses for carrying out its functions. expenditure and preparation of estimates 74. (1) The expenditure of the Institute up to such amount as may be authorized by the minister for any one year shall be defrayed out of the fund. (2) before 1 september of each year, the Institute shall submit an estimate of its expenditure, including the expenditure for research and development programmes, for the following year in such form and containing such particulars as the m inister may direct. (3) The minister shall, before 1 January of the following year, notify the Institute of the amount authorized for expenditure generally or of the amount authorized for each description of expenditure based on the estimate prepared under subsection (2). (4) The Institute may, at any time, submit to the m inister a supplementary estimate of its expenditure for any one year and the minister may allow the whole or any part of the additional expenditure included therein. conservation of fund 75. It shall be the duty of the Institute to conserve the f und by so performing its functions and exercising its power under this a ct as to secure that the total revenue of the Institute are sufficient to meet all sums properly chargeable to its revenue account including depreciation and interest on capital taking one year with another.

63Youth Societies and Youth Development power to invest 76. (1) The Institute may invest in the Government’s security or in other securities with prior approval in writing of the m inister of f inance, money of the f und, not immediately required to be expended, with the power from time to time to vary any investment, subject to the prior approval in writing of the minister of finance in relation to any variation following any investment in other security other than the Government’s security. (2) The Institute may keep, either in fixed deposit or current account, any money for the time being not invested in any bank in malaysia which holds valid license under the provision of the *banking and financial Institution act 1989 [ Act 372 ] or the Islamic banking act 1983 [ Act 276 ] and be given prior approval in writing for such purpose by the minister. accounts and reports 77. (1) The Institute shall cause proper accounts of the fund to be kept and shall, as soon as practicable after the end of each financial year, cause to be prepared for that financial year a statement of accounts of the Institute which shall include a balance sheet and an account of income and expenditure. (2) The Institute shall as soon as possible send a copy of the statement of accounts certified by the auditors and a copy of the auditor’s report to the minister who shall cause them to be laid before both houses of Parliament. (3) The statutory bodies (accounts and annual Reports) act 1980 [ Act 240 ] shall apply to the Institute. financial procedure 78. subject to this act and the approval of the minister, the Institute shall determine its own financial procedure. financial year 79. The financial year of the Institute shall begin on 1 January and end on 31 december of each year. *NOTE— This act has since been repealed by the financial service act 2013 [ Act 758 ] which comes into operation on 30 June 2013— see section 271 of act 758.

64 Laws of Malaysia Ac t 668 Pa r t vIII offENcEs unlawful youth societies 80. (1) f or the purposes of this a ct, any of the following youth societies shall be an unlawful youth society, that is to say— (a) a youth society or a branch which has been declared unlawful by the minister under section 33; (b) a youth society or a branch which is not registered under section 9; (c) a branch of a youth society, where the branch was established in contravention of subsection 18(1), or continues to exist in contravention of the proviso to subsection 18(3); and (d) a youth society or a branch thereof which has had its registration cancelled under section 31 and 20. (2) w here a youth society is unlawful under subsection (1), or its registration is cancelled under this a ct, every branch of the youth society shall immediately thereupon be unlawful and the approval of the Registrar for its establishment shall be deemed to be revoked. penalty for managing, etc., an unlawful youth society 81. a ny office-bearer and any person managing or assisting in the management of any unlawful youth society commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding five thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding one year or to both. penalty for attending meetings, etc ., an unlawful youth society 82. a ny member or person who acts as a member of an unlawful youth society or attends a meeting of an unlawful youth society or who pays money or gives any aid to or for the purposes of an 

65Youth Societies and Youth Development unlawful youth society, knowing that the youth society is unlawful, commits of an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding three thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding six months or to both. penalty on persons allowing unlawful youth society on premises 83. a ny person who knowingly allows a meeting of an unlawful youth society, to be held in any house, building or place belonging to or occupied or controlled by him, commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding five thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding one year or to both. penalty for inciting, etc., a person to become a member of an unlawful youth society 84. (1) any person who incites, induces or invites another person to become a member of, or to assist in the management of, an unlawful youth society commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding five thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding one year or to both. (2) a ny person who uses any violence, threat or intimidation towards any other person in order to induce him to become a member of or to assist in the management of an unlawful youth society commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding ten thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding two years or to both. penalty for procuring subscription or aid for an unlawful youth society 85. a ny person who procures or attempts to procure from any other person any subscription or aid for the purposes of an unlawful youth society commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding ten thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding two years or to both.

66 Laws of Malaysia Ac t 668 penalty for publishing, etc., propaganda of an unlawful youth society 86. (1) a ny person who prints, distributes, publishes, displays, sells or exposes for sale, or transmits through any medium or who, without lawful authority or excuse, has in his possession any placard, newspaper, book, magazine, periodical, poster, circular, proclamation, pictorial representation, letter or any other document or writing whatsoever or which is issued or appears to be issued by or on behalf of or in the interests of an unlawful youth society commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding five thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding one year or both. (2) any placard, newspaper, book, magazine, periodical, poster, circular, proclamation, pictorial representation, letter or any other document or writing whatsoever and any book, magazine, periodical, poster, proclamation, newspaper, letter or any other document or writing in respect of which such person shall have been convicted shall be forfeited. penalty for acting on behalf of or representing an unlawful youth society 87. (1) a ny person who in any manner acts on behalf of, or represents, or assists, whether in a professional capacity or otherwise— (a) any unlawful youth society; (b) its office-bearers; (c) its governing body; or (d) governing body of its branch, in relation to any matter concerning the youth society, commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding five thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding one year or to both. (2) subsection (1) does not apply to an appeal by an unlawful youth society under section 30, or to any proceedings in any court in respect of any matter involving such society.

67Youth Societies and Youth Development penalty against office-bearer of a youth society whose registration has been cancelled 88. If the registration of any youth society has been cancelled under section 31 or paragraph 20(1) (c), any office-bearer of such youth society— (a) at any time after the cancellation, becomes an office bearer of another youth society; or (b) after the expiry of thirty days from such cancellation, continues to remain an office bearer of any other youth society, without the permission in writing of the Registrar commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding ten thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding two years or to both. u sage of flags, symbols, emblems, badges or other insignia of youth societies 89. (1) No youth society shall adopt as its own any flag, symbol, emblem, badge or other insignia without an approval by the Registrar. (2) The Registrar may impose any conditions under which such flag, symbol, emblem, badge or other insignia may be displayed. (3) a ny person or youth society who displays any flag, symbol, emblem, badge or other insignia which has not been approved by the Registrar or in contravention of any condition imposed by the Registrar commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding three thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding six months or to both. Liability of office-bearer in respect of offences by youth society 90. (1) where any offence under this act— (a) whether or not any person has been convicted in respect thereof; and

68 Laws of Malaysia Ac t 668 (b) has been committed or pu rports to have been committed in the name or on behalf of any youth society established by, under or pursuant to this act; every office bearer of such youth society or every person managing or assisting in the management of such youth society at the time of the commission of such offence, shall be deemed to be guilty of such offence and shall be liable to the punishment prescribed by law thereof, unless he proves to the satisfaction of the court that the offence was committed without his knowledge and that he had exercised all due diligence to prevent the commission of the offence. (2) In any prosecution under this section against an office-bearer or any person managing or assisting in the management of a youth society mentioned under subsection (1), any document found in the possession of an office bearer or of a person assisting in the management of such youth society, or of a member of such youth society, shall be prima facie evidence of the contents thereof for the purpose of proving that anything has been done or purports to have been done by or on behalf of the youth society. y outh society using a triad ritual to be deemed an unlawful youth society 91. (1) Every youth society, whether it is registered or not, which uses a triad ritual shall be deemed to be an unlawful youth society. (2) f or the purposes of subsection (1) a triad ritual means any ritual commonly used by triad societies, any ritual closely resembling any such ritual and any part of such ritual. (3) a ny person who is or acts as a member of a triad society or attends a meeting thereof or is found in possession of, or having the custody or control of any documents, accounts, lists of members, seals, banners, symbols or other things, relating to, any triad society whether such society is established in m alaysia or not, commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding fifteen thousand ringgit or to imp risonment for a term not exceeding five years or to both.

69Youth Societies and Youth Development penalty for misuse of money or property of a registered youth society 92. (1) a ny member of a registered youth society or the Registrar may make a complaint to the s essions c ourt that any office-bearer or member of that society— (a) has in his possession or control any property of the youth society otherwise than in accordance with the rules of the society; (b) has unlawfully withheld any money of the youth society; (c) has purposely used any money of the youth society for purposes other than those expressed in the rules of the youth society and the provision of this act. (2) w here the c ourt is satisfied with the circumstances mentioned in subsection (1), the court shall, if it considers the justice of the case so requires, order such office bearer or member of the registered youth society to deliver such property or pay such money to the trustees of the registered youth society. (3) a complaint made under subsection (1) shall not be entertained unless the c ourt is satisfied that the complainant is, on the date of that complaint, a member of the youth society in respect of the property of which such complaint is so made. (4) any person bound by an order made under subsection (2) who fails to comply with the terms thereof and the directions given therein within a time to be specified in such order commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding five thousand ringgit. (5) an order made under subsection (2) shall not affect or prevent a prosecution of, or civil proceedings against, any such office bearer or member of the youth society. penalty for displaying or using certificate of registration which has been cancelled 93. a ny person who displays or uses any certificate of registration or copy thereof of a youth society whose registration has been 

70 Laws of Malaysia Ac t 668 cancelled with the knowledge that the certificate of registration has been cancelled commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding two thousand ringgit. penalty for fraud 94. a ny person who with intent to mislead or defraud gives to any person a copy of any rules, laws, regulations or other documents, other than the rules of a youth society, on the pretence— (a) that they are the existing rules of that youth society; (b) that there are no other rules of the youth society; or (c) that those rules are the rules of a registered youth society when the society is not registered, commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding two thousand ringgit or to a term of imprisonment not exceeding six months or to both. penalty for furnishing false information 95. any person who furnishes to the Registrar, deputy Registrar or an a ssistant Registrar, any information or document required under this a ct or regulations made thereunder which he either knows or has reason to believe is false commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding two thousand ringgit. presumptions 96. In any proceedings under this act— (a) where it is proved that a main body of youth societies at national level, society, association, voluntary organization or youth club, is in existence, it shall be presumed that such main body of youth societies at national level, society, association, voluntary organisation or youth club is a youth society within the meaning of this act unless the contrary is proved;

71Youth Societies and Youth Development (b) it shall not be necessary for the prosecution to prove that a youth society possesses a name or that it has been constituted or is usually known under a particular name; and (c) where it is alleged that a youth society is an unlawful youth society, the burden of proving that it is a lawful youth society, shall lie on the person charged. presumption of membership, etc., of youth society 97. (1) where any documents, accounts, lists of members, seals, banners, symbols or other things relating to, or purporting to relate to, any youth society are found in the possession, custody or under the control of any person, it shall be presumed, until the contrary is proved, that such person is a member of such youth society, and such youth society shall be presumed, until the contrary is proved, as has been in existence at the time such documents, accounts, lists of members, seals, banners, symbols or other things are so found. (2) w here any documents, accounts, lists of members, seals, banners, symbols or other things relating to, any youth society are found— (a) in the possession, custody or under the control of any person, it shall be presumed, until the contrary is proved, that such person assists in the management of such youth society; and (b) concealed in any premises it shall be presumed, until the contrary is proved, that the same are in the possession of the occupier of the premises. (3) when it appears to a court that there is reasonable cause to suspect that any place entered or searched under any lawful power conferred by or under this act was immediately before or at the time of such entry, being used by or for the purposes of an unlawful youth society, any person found in such place at any time during such search or found leaving there from immediately before or at the time of such entry, shall unless he gives a satisfactory account of the reasons for his presence in the said place, be presumed to be a member of the unlawful youth society.

72 Laws of Malaysia Ac t 668 expert evidence 98. In any prosecution under this act, there shall be no objection to the admissibility of expert evidence that the expert is not or has not been a member of any unlawful youth society. protection of informers 99. (1) Except as is hereinafter provided under subsection (2) and (3), no witness in any civil or criminal proceedings shall be obliged or permitted to disclose the name or address of any informer or the contents of the information received from him or to state any matter which might lead to his discovery. (2) If any books, records, accounts, documents or computerized datas which are evidence or liable to inspection in any civil or criminal proceedings contain any entry in which any informer is named or described or which might lead to his discovery, the court shall cause all such passages to be concealed from view or to be obliterated so far as may be necessary to protect the informer from discovery. (3) w here in any trial for any offence under this a ct, the court after full inquiry into the case believed that the informer has intentionally made in his complaint a material fact which he knows or believes is false or does not believe it is true, or where in any other proceedings the court is of opinion that justice could not be fully achieved between the parties in the proceedings without knowing the informer, the court may require the production of the original information, if in writing, and may permit inquiry and may require full disclosure to the c ourt concerning the informer. forfeiture 100. any books, accounts, writings, banners, insignia or other property belonging to any unlawful society shall, upon order of a Judge of a s essions c ourt or a m agistrate, be forfeited and given to the Registrar or to an assistant Registrar for disposal in such manner as he may think fit.

73Youth Societies and Youth Development certain non-bailable and registrable offences 101. Every offence against the provisions of sections 13, 21, 81, 82, 83, 84, 85, 86, 87 and 91 shall be deemed to be seizable and non-bailable under the law relating to criminal procedure and shall also be deemed to be registrable under the law relating to registration of criminals. Pa r t IX ENfoRcEmENT aNd INvEsTIGa TIoN enforcement officers 102. f or the purposes of this a ct, the m inister may appoint any officer from the m inistry responsible for youth as an enforcement officer to perform any obligation relating to the enforcement and investigation under this act. powers of enforcement officers 103. an enforcement officer shall have all necessary powers— (a) to investigate any offence under this act; (b) to carry out any investigation under this act; or (c) to enforce any provision under this act. disclosure of authorisation card 104. (1) The enforcement officer in exercising any power under this act shall declare his office and shall disclose to a person against whom such action is to be taken or from whom the information is to be required, an authorisation card as directed by the Registrar to be brought along by such officer. (2) The authorisation card mentioned under subsection (1) shall be issued by the minister.

74 Laws of Malaysia Ac t 668 power of inspection 105. (1) The enforcement officer shall, by notice in writing, request any person who has knowledge on certain fact and circumstances of a particular case to appear before him and to be examined orally and shall reduce in writing any statement made by the person so examined. (2) a ny statement made, by any person under this section may be admissible as evidence in any proceedings before the court under this act against that person or any other person. disclosure of document, etc. 106. In carrying out any investigation or inspection under this Part the enforcement officer may— (a) request any person to submit to him any book, minute book, register, statement of account, document, any particular or other things whether in physical form or electronic medium; and (b) to inspect, make copy, extract from, remove and detain any book, minute book, register, statement of account, document, any particular or other things whether in physical form or eletronic medium. seizure of document, etc. 107. where the enforcement officer in carrying out an investigation under this a ct has reason to believe that an offence has been committed against this act, he may seize any book, minute book, register, document, statement of account, any particular or other things in physical form or electronic medium forwarded under section 108 and any book, minute book, register, statement of account, document, any particular or other things shall be admissible in any proceeding in court under this act against the person or any other person.

75Youth Societies and Youth Development application for search warrant 108. w here the enforcement officer has reason to believe that any premises has been used, is used or to be used for, or there is in any premises, the necessary evidence to prove an offence under this a ct, he may apply for a search warrant before a m agistrate by a written information under oath. power of magistrate to issue search warrant 109. w here the m agistrate is satisfied that there is an offence committed under any provision of this act, he may issue a search warrant to the enforcement officer, at any reasonable time whether day or night and with or without assistance— (a) to enter into the premises, by force if necessary; (b) to search and seize and forfeit any book, minute book, register, statement of account, document, any particular or other things whether in physical form or electronic medium— (i) related to an offence that has been committed; (ii) related to an offence that is suspected to have been committed; or (iii) which is reasonably believed may be used as evidence against such offence committed; (c) to break any door whether inside or outside such premises or any fence, surrounding, gate or any other obstacle towards the premises, in order to enter into it; (d) to remove by force any obstacle to the entrance, search, seizure or removal; or (e) to detain every person in such premises until such premises is completely searched. power to enter premises without warrant or notice 110. The enforcement officer shall, for the purpose of ensuring whether the provision of this act or any regulation made thereunder or any condition of registration under this act is being complied 

76 Laws of Malaysia Ac t 668 with, have power without warrant or notice at all reasonable time to enter any premises and to conduct investigation or inspection if there is a reasonable ground that such premises is or is being used for purposes prejudicial to or incompatible with the interest of the security of malaysia, public order or morality. search and seizure without warrant 111. where the enforcement officer has reason to believe that, due to the delay in obtaining the search warrant under section 109— (a) the investigation will be affected; (b) the purpose of the entry may be hampered; (c) book, minute book, register, statement of account, any particular or other things searched for may be removed or tampered with; or (d) evidence searched for may be tampered with or destroyed, he may in exercising in, and in relation with, such premises all powers adequately as if he has been authorised to do so by a warrant issued under such section. power to seal 112. (1) w here the enforcement officer has reason to believe that any premises is used by any unlawful youth society, such enforcement officer may fortwith take any action as he deems fit or by any means to seal such premises. (2) The enforcement officer, in carrying out his duty under this section, shall not be liable for any cost arising pursuant to his action or damages to the sealed premises unless the damage is done intentionally. (3) a ny action taken under this section in relation to such premises shall not hamper the prosecution against any youth society using such premises contrary to this act.

77Youth Societies and Youth Development Pa r t X mIscEllaNEous public servant 113. all members and officers of the Institute shall be deemed to be public servants within the meaning of the Penal code. public authorities protection act 1948 114. The Public authorities Protection act 1948 [ Act 198 ] shall apply to any action, suit, prosecution or proceedings against the Institute or a member of the Institute or an officer of the Institute in respect of any act, neglect or default done or committed by him or the Institute in good faith or any omission omitted by him or it in good faith, in such capacity. obligation of secrecy 115. (1) Except for any of the purposes of this act or for the purpose of any civil or criminal proceedings under any written law or where otherwise authorized by the Institute— (a) no member of the Institute or any officer of the Institute or any person attending any meeting of the Institute, whether during his tenure of office or during his employment or after that, shall disclose any information which has been obtained by him in the course of performing his functions and which is not published in pursuance of this act; and (b) no other person who has by any means access to any information or document relating to the affairs of the Institute shall disclose such information or document. (2) any person who contravenes subsection (1) commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding five thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding six months or to both.

78 Laws of Malaysia Ac t 668 Representation in civil proc eedings 116. Notwithstanding any other written law— (a) in any civil proceedings by or against the Institute; or (b) in any other civil proceedings in which the Institute is required or permitted by the court to be represented, or to be heard, or is otherwise entitled to be represented or to be heard, any person authorized by the Institute for that purpose may, on behalf of the Institute, institute such proceedings or appear in such proceedings and make all appearances and applications and do all acts in respect of the proceedings, on behalf of the Institute. prosecution 117. No prosecution shall be instituted for any offence under this act without the consent in writing of the Public Prosecutor. protection 118. No person or member of a committee formed or appointed under this act or any officer, servant or agent thereof shall be liable to be sued in any court for any act done by him in good faith and in the exercise of any power or performance of any duty under this act. non entitlement to cost of proceedings, damages or other reliefs, etc. 119. No one shall, in any proceeding before any court in respect of whatsoever being seized or detained in the exercise or the purported exercise of any power given under this Part, be entitled to such cost of proceedings or to any damages or other reliefs, other than an order for the return of such things being siezed or detained, or payment of its value, unless such seizure or detention is carried out without reasonable cause.

79Youth Societies and Youth Development amendment of schedules 120. The m inister may amend the s chedules by order published in the Gazette . Regulations 121. (1) The minister may make such regulations as are necessary to give full effect to the provisions of this act. (2) In particular, without prejudice to the generality of the power conferred by subsection (1), the minister may make regulations for or in respect of all or any of the following matters— (a) prescribing the manner of registration of youth societies under this act; (b) prescribing the forms which may be used for carrying out the provisions of this act; (c) prescribing information to be furnished to the Registrar; (d) prescribing the fees which may be levied under this act; (e) prescribing the manner in which the dispute Resolution Panel shall be convened or generally for the better carrying out of the duties and functions of the d ispute Resolution Panel under this act; (f) the form of register or other records that shall be kept or maintained under this act and minutes that shall be prepared in such register and record; and (g) prescribing anything which may be prescribed under this act. (3) a ny such regulations may provide that the breach of any regulation is an offence against such regulations and may prescribe penalties of a fine not exceeding two thousand ringgit or imprisonment for a term not exceeding six months or for both such offence and imprisonment.

80 Laws of Malaysia Ac t 668 General offences 122. a ny person guilty of an offence under this a ct or regulations made thereunder for which no penalty is expressly provided shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding three thousand ringgit. General powers of minister 123. The m inister may exempt any person or youth society from all or any provision of this act by order published in the Gazette upon being satisfied that there are special circumstances for doing so. t ransitional provisions 124. (1) a ll applications for registration as a youth society and all applications for approval by such society under the s ocieties act 1966 which are pending on the date of coming into force of this a ct shall, on that date, cease to be dealt with under that act and shall be dealt with under the provisions of this act. (2) any proceedings or cause of action pending or existing immediately before the date of coming into force of this a ct under the societies act 1966 may be continued or instituted under that act as if this act had not been enacted. (3) This a ct does not affect any person’s liability to be prosecuted or punished for offences committed under the s ocieties a ct 1966 before the date of coming into force of this a ct, or any proceedings brought or sentence imposed before that date in respect of such offence. (4) a ny member appointed or elected as an office-bearer in a youth society who has attained the age of forty or has exceeded the age of forty before the commencement of this act, shall be permitted to hold his office until the end of his term. prevention of anomalies 125. (1) The m inister may, by order, make such modifications in the provisions of this a ct as may appear to him to be necessary or expedient for the purpose of removing any difficulty occasioned 

81Youth Societies and Youth Development by the coming into force of this a ct provided that the m inister shall not exercise the powers conferred by this section after the expiration of two years from the date of coming into force of this act. (2) In this section “modifications” includes amendments, additions, deletions, substitutions, adaptations, variations, alteration and non-application of any provision of this act. Fi r s t s c h e d u l e [subparagraph 7(2) (a)] 1. Girl Guides act 1953 [ Act 456 ] 2. malaysian Red crescent society (Incorporation) act 1965 [ Act 540 ] 3. scouts association of malaysia (Incorporation) act 1968 [ Act 409 ] 4. st. John ambulance of malaysia (Incorporation) act 1972 [ Act 74 ] se c o n d s c h e d u l e [subparagraph 9(3) (e)] coNsTITuTIoN aNd RulEs of youTh socIETIEs 1. m atters for which provisions shall be made in the constitution or rules of every registered youth society or a branch thereof shall be as follows: (a) the name and registered place of business or registered postal address of the registered youth society; (b) an accurate description of the design and colours of any flag, emblem, badge or other insignia used by the registered youth society; (c) the aims or objects for which the registered youth society is formed, or which it may pursue, or for which its funds or any of them may be used;

82 Laws of Malaysia Ac t 668 (d) the qualifications for membership, including particulars of any restriction or limitation that may be imposed as to the number, age limit, sex, religion, race, nationality, dwelling place, clan or surname of persons who may be admitted to membership of the society; (e) the method of appointment or election of members; (f) the composi ion and method of appointment of the committee or the governing body and the designations, powers and functions of the office-bearers of the society and where applicable, the branches thereof; (g) that, if the Registrar so requires, the office-bearers of the society and every officer performing executive functions in such society shall be malaysian citizens; (h) the sources from which the society shall derive its income, including the rates and method of payment of such entrance fees and periodical subscriptions as may be decided upon; (i) the authority or authorities for expenditure from the funds of the society; (j) the keeping of accounts of the income and expenditure of the society and the publication of such accounts to its members annually; (k) the appointment of one or more auditors; (l) the quorum required for the transaction of business at any meeting of the society or its governing body; and (m) the manner by and in which the constitution or rules of the society may be amended. 2. w here any registered youth society makes provisions in its constitution or rules for the establishment of branches it shall in addition also provide therein for the method and manner by which the establishment of such branches shall be approved by such society or its governing body. t h i r d s c h e d u l e [subsection 60(7)] t imes and places of meetings 1. (1) The b oard is to hold as many meetings as are necessary for the efficient performance of its functions and such meetings are to be held at such places and times as the c hairman may decide, provided that the c hairman shall not allow more than three months to lapse between meetings. (2) The c hairman shall call for a meeting if requested to do so in writing by the minister of by at least two members of the board.

83Youth Societies and Youth Development Quorum 2. The quorum of the b oard shall be half of the number of members of the board. casting vote 3. If on any question to be determined by the b oard there is an equality of votes, the c hairman shall have a casting vote in addition to his deliberative vote. Board may invite others to meetings 4. (1) The b oard may invite any person to attend any meeting for the purpose of advising it on any matter under discussion, but any person so attending shall have no right to vote at the meeting. (2) a person invited under subsection (1) shall be paid such allowances as may be determined by the board. minutes 5. (1) The b oard shall cause minutes of all their meetings to be maintained and kept in a proper form. (2) a ny minutes made of meetings of the b oard, if duly signed, shall be admissible in any legal proceedings as prima facie evidence of the facts stated in them without further proof and every meeting of the b oard in respect of the proceedings of which minutes have been so made shall be deemed to have been duly convened and held and all members at the meeting to have been duly qualified to act. procedure 6. The board may regulate its own procedure. disclosure of interest 7. (1) a member of the b oard having any interest in any matter under discussion by the b oard shall disclose to the b oard the fact of his interest and its nature. (2) f or the purpose of subsection (1), a member of the b oard shall be deemed to have an interest in the matter under discussion if he has interest in any company carrying on activities similar or related to the matter unde r discussion.

84 Laws of Malaysia Ac t 668 (3) a disclosure under subsection (1) shall be recorded in the minutes of the b oard and after the disclosure, the member having an interest in the matter— (a) shall not take part nor be present in any decision of the board; and (b) shall be disregarded for the purpose of constituting a quorum of the board. (4) No act or proceedings of the b oard shall be invalidated on the ground that any member of the board has contravened the provisions of this section.

85Youth Societies and Youth Development Laws of maLaysia act 668 youth societies and youth deveLopment act 2007 lIsT of amENdmENTs amending law short title In force from – NIl – 

86 Laws of Malaysia Ac t 668 Laws of maLaysia akta 668 youth societies and youth deveLopment act 2007 lIsT of sEcTIoNs amENdEd section amending authority In force from – NIl –