Finance LAWS OF MALAYSIA RepRint Act 531 FIn Ance Act 1995 Incorporating all amendments up to 1 January 2006 published by the CommissioneR of law Revision, malaysia undeR the authoRity of the Revision of laws aCt 968 in CollaboRation with peRCetakan nasional malaysia bhd 2006

 FIn Ance Act 1995 d ate of Royal a ssent ... ... ... … … 7 f ebruary 995 d ate of publication in the Gazette … …  6 f ebruary 995 Previous r e Print First Reprint ... ... ... ... ... 2002

 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 531 FIn Ance Act 1995 a RRan Gement of se Ctions Chapter i pRelimina Ry s ection  . s hort title  . a mendments of a cts Chapter ii amendments to the in Come ta X a Ct 967  . Commencement of amendments to the income t ax a ct 967 4. a mendment of section  5. a mendment of section 6 a 6. a mendment of section 4b 7. a mendment of section 9 8. a mendment of section 44 9. a mendment of section 46  0. a mendment of section 47  . a mendment of section 48  . a mendment of section 60  . n ew section 60 ab  4. a mendment of section 60 e  5. a mendment of section 65 a  6. a mendment of section 08  7. a mendment of section 0  8. a mendment of section 54

4 Laws of Malaysia Act 531  9. a mendment of s chedule   0. a mendment of s chedule   . a mendment of s chedule 6 Chapter iii amendments to the pet Roleum ( in Come ta X) a Ct 967  . Commencement of amendments to the petroleum ( income t ax) a ct 967  . a mendment of section   4. a mendment of section 6  5. a mendment of section  Chapter iv amendment to the stamp a Ct 949  6. Commencement of amendment to the s tamp a ct 949  7. a mendment of section 0b Chapter v amendments to the pRomotion of investments a Ct 986  8. Commencement of amendments to the promotion of investments a ct 986  9. a mendment of section   0. a mendment of section 4 b  . n ew section 6g  . n ew section 7g  . a mendment of section 8  4. n ew section 9h  5. a mendment of section 7 s ection

5Finance LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 531 FIn Ance Act 1995 a n a ct to amend the income t ax a ct 967, the petroleum (income t ax) a ct 967, the s tamp a ct 949 and the promotion of investments a ct 986. [ ] Be I t en Acte D by the s eri paduka b aginda y ang di- pertuan a gong with the advice and consent of the d ewan n egara and d ewan Rakyat in parliament assembled, and by the authority of the same, as follows: Chapter i pRelimina Ry Short title 1. t his a ct may be cited as the f inance a ct 995. Amendments of Acts 2. t he income t ax a ct 967 [ Act 53 ], the petroleum ( income t ax) a ct 967 [ Act 543 ], the s tamp a ct 949 [ Act 378 ] and the promotion of investments a ct 986 [ Act 327 ] are amended in the manner specified in Chapters ii , iii , iv and v respectively. Chapter ii amendments to the in Come ta X a Ct 967 c ommencement of amendments to the Income t ax Act 1967 3. () e xcept for section 6, paragraphs 9(c) and (e), this Chapter shall have effect for the year of assessment 995 and subsequent years of assessment.

6 Laws of Malaysia Act 531 () s ection 6 (except for subparagraph 6 (a)(i)) shall have effect for the year of assessment 994 and subsequent years of assessment. () s ubparagraph 6 (a)(i) shall be deemed to have come into force for the year of assessment 99. (4) p aragraphs 9(c) and (e) shall come into force on 8 o ctober 994. Amendment of section 3 4. t he income t ax a ct 967, which is referred to as the “principal a ct” in this Chapter, is amended by inserting after section b the following section: “n onchargeability to tax in respect of income received in Malaysia from outside Malaysia 3c . n otwithstanding section , tax shall not be charged under this a ct on income arising from sources outside m alaysia and received in m alaysia by a resident company (other than a company carrying on the business of banking, insurance, shipping and air transport).”. Amendment of section 6 A 5. s ubsection 6 a() of the principal a ct is amended— (a) in paragraph (a) by substituting for the word “ninety” the words “one hundred and ten”; and (b) in paragraph (b) by substituting for the word “fifty” the word “sixty”. Amendment of section 34 b 6. s ection 4b of the principal a ct is amended— (a) in subsection ( )— (i) by substituting for the words “subsection ( )” the words “subsection ( )”; (ii) by deleting the word “or” at the end of paragraph (a);

7Finance (iii) by substituting for the full stop at the end of paragraph (b) the punctuation mark and word “; or”; and (iv) by inserting after paragraph (b) the following paragraph: “(c) payment for the use of the services of a research and development company or a contract research and development company.”; (b) by substituting for the full stop at the end of subsection ( ) a colon and inserting thereafter the following proviso: “provided that no deduction in respect of that expenditure shall be made under this section to a person being a related company of a research and development company which has been given approval under subsection 7d() of the promotion of investments a ct 986 and whose period as prescribed under paragraph 9e()(b) of that a ct has not ended.”; and (c) by substituting for the full stop at the end of paragraph (4)(b) a semicolon and inserting thereafter the following paragraph: “(c) a “contract research and development company”, a “related company” and a “research and development company” have the meaning assigned thereto in section  of the promotion of investments a ct 986.”. Amendment of section 39 7. t he proviso to paragraph 9()(l) of the principal a ct is amended— (a) by deleting the word “or” at the end of subparagraph (iv); and (b) by inserting after subparagraph (v) the following subparagraph: “(vi) the provision of promotional gifts within malaysia consisting of articles incorporating a conspicuous advertisement or logo of the business; or”.

8 Laws of Malaysia Act 531 Amendment of section 44 8. s ection 44 of the principal a ct is amended— (a) in subsection ( )— (i) by deleting the word “and” at the end of paragraph (b); (ii) by substituting for paragraph (c) the following paragraph: “(c) next, by any deduction falling to be so made pursuant to subsection (6); and”; and (iii) by inserting after paragraph (c) the following paragraph: “(d) thereafter, in respect of an individual, by any deduction falling to be so made pursuant to subsection (8).”; (b) in the proviso to subsection (6) by substituting for the words “  January 994” the words “ 0 June 994”; (c) in subsection (7), in the definition of “institution”— (i) by deleting the word “or” at the end of paragraph (d); (ii) by inserting the word “or” at the end of paragraph (e); and (iii) by inserting after paragraph (e) the following paragraph: “(f) a technical or vocational training institute established and maintained by a statutory body;”; and (d) by inserting after subsection (7) the following subsection: “(8) t here shall be deducted pursuant to this subsection from the aggregate income of a person to whom paragraph 4(6) (g) does not apply, for the relevant year reduced by any deduction for that year pursuant to subsection ( ) or s chedule 

9Finance 4, 4 a or 4 b, an amount equal to any gift of money made by him in the basis year for that year, for the provision of library facilities which are accessible to the public and in respect of contributions to public libraries and libraries of schools and institutions of higher education, not exceeding twenty thousand ringgit.”. Amendment of section 46 9. s ection 46 of the principal a ct is amended— (a) by deleting the word “and” at the end of paragraph (c); (b) by substituting for the full stop at the end of paragraph (d) a semicolon; and (c) by inserting after paragraph (d) the following paragraphs: “(e) a further five thousand ringgit for that individual if he is a disabled person; and (f) an amount limited to a maximum of two thousand ringgit on fees expended in that basis year by that individual for any course of study in any institution in m alaysia recognized by the Government undertaken for the purpose of acquiring technical, vocational or industrial skills.”. Amendment of section 47 10. s ection 47 of the principal a ct is amended— (a) by substituting for subsection ( ) the following subsection: “() i n the case of an individual resident for the basis year for a year of assessment who in that basis year had a wife living together with him, there shall, subject to subsections ( ) and (4), be allowed for that year of assessment a deduction of— (a) three thousand ringgit for the wife; and (b) a further two thousand five hundred ringgit for the wife if she is a disabled person.”; and

0 Laws of Malaysia Act 531 (b) in subsection () by substituting for the words “subsections () and ( )” the words “paragraph ( )(a) and subsection ()”. Amendment of section 48 11. s ection 48 of the principal a ct is amended— (a) in paragraph ( )(a) by deleting the words “for the first five children in order of age,”; and (b) by deleting subsection (7). Amendment of section 60 12. s ection 60 of the principal a ct is amended— (a) by substituting for the full stop at the end of subparagraph ()(b)(ii) a semicolon and inserting thereafter the following paragraph: “(c) where an insurer carries on life business, the income of the life fund shall be treated as a separate source of income from the income of the shareholders’ fund in respect of the life business.”; (b) by substituting for subsection ( ) the following subsections: “() t he adjusted income of the life fund for the basis period for a year of assessment of an insurer resident for the basis year for that year of assessment shall be ascertained by— (a) taking the aggregate of— (i) the amount of gross income for that period from the investments made out of any of the insurer’s life funds; and (ii) the amount of any gross proceeds (whether or not of an income nature) which are not gross income to which subparagraph (i) applies and which are first receivable in that period 

Finance in connection with the realization of those investments or any rights arising from them; and (b) deducting from that aggregate where subparagraph (a)(ii) is applicable for that period to gross proceeds receivable in connection with any investments or rights, the cost of acquiring and realizing those investments or rights. (a) t he adjusted income of the shareholders’ fund for the basis period for a year of assessment of an insurer resident for the basis year for that year of assessment shall be ascertained by— (a) taking the aggregate of— (i) the amount of gross income for that period from the investments made out of any of the shareholders’ funds; and (ii) the amount of any gross proceeds (whether or not of an income nature) which are not gross income to which subparagraph (i) applies and which are first receivable in that period in connection with the realization of those investments or any rights arising from them; and (iii) the amount of the actuarial surplus (subject to any adjustment as the d irector General may think fit to make in accordance with the provisions of this a ct) for that period arising from the life fund as is apportioned to the shareholders’ fund; and (b) deducting from that aggregate where subparagraph (a)(ii) is applicable for that period to gross proceeds receivable in connection with any investments or rights, the cost of acquiring and realizing those investments or rights.”;

 Laws of Malaysia Act 531 (c) by substituting for subsection (4) the following subsections: “(4) t he adjusted income of the life fund of an insurer not resident for the basis year for that year of assessment shall where that business is wholly or partly carried on in m alaysia be ascertained by— (a) taking the aggregate of— (i) the amount of gross income for that period from investments made (in m alaysia or elsewhere) out of the insurer’s m alaysian life fund; and (ii) the amount of any gross proceeds (whether or not of an income nature) which are not gross income to which subparagraph (i) applies and which are first receivable in that period in connection with the realization of those investments or any rights arising from them; and (b) deducting from that aggregate where subparagraph (a)(ii) is applicable for that period to gross proceeds receivable in connection with any investments or rights, the cost of acquiring and realizing those investments or rights. (4a) t he adjusted income of the shareholders’ fund for the basis period for a year of assessment of an insurer not resident for the basis year for that year of assessment shall, where that business is wholly or partly carried on in m alaysia, be ascertained by— (a) taking the aggregate of— (i) the amount of gross income for that period from the investments made out of any of the shareholders’ funds; and (ii) the amount of any gross proceeds (whether or not of an income nature) which are not gross income to which subparagraph (i) applies and which are first receivable in that period in connection with the realization of those investments or any rights arising from them; and

Finance (iii) the amount of the actuarial surplus (subject to any adjustment as the d irector General may think fit to make in accordance with the provisions of this a ct) for that period arising from the life fund as is apportioned to the shareholders’ fund; and (b) deducting from that aggregate where subparagraph (a)(ii) is applicable for that period to gross proceeds receivable in connection with any investments or rights, the cost of acquiring and realizing those investments or rights. (4b) t he adjusted income as ascertained under subsections ( a) and (4 a) shall be deemed to be the statutory income from that source.”; (d) in subsection (5)— (i) in subparagraph (a)(iv) by inserting after the word “recovered” the words “or recoverable”; and (ii) in paragraph (b) by substituting for subparagraph (i) the following subparagraph: “(i) claims incurred in that period in connection with his general policies;”; (e) in subsection (6)— (i) in subparagraph (a)(iv) by inserting after the word “recovered” the words “or recoverable”; and (ii) in paragraph (b) by substituting for subparagraph (i) the following subparagraph: “(i) claims incurred in that period in connection with his m alaysian general policies;”; and (f) by inserting after subsection ( 0) the following subsections: “(0a ) n otwithstanding subsection 4 () and subsection 60( 0), any unabsorbed losses of the life business shall only be available for deduction against the statutory income for the basis period for a year of assessment and subsequent years of assessment in respect of the life fund of the insurer.

4 Laws of Malaysia Act 531 (0b) n otwithstanding paragraph 75 of s chedule , any unabsorbed allowances of the life business shall only be available for deduction against the adjusted income for the basis period for a year of assessment and subsequent years of assessment in respect of the life fund of the insurer. (0c) a llowances under s chedule  shall only be available for deduction against the adjusted income of the life fund and the balance of such allowances shall not be available as a deduction against the adjusted income of the shareholders’ fund.”. n ew section 60 Ab 13. t he principal a ct is amended by inserting after section 60 aa the following section: “c hargeable income of life fund subject to tax 60Ab . t he chargeable income in respect of the life fund as determined under subsections 60( ) and 60(4) is subject to tax as specified under part viii of s chedule .”. Amendment of section 60 e 14. s ection 60 e of the principal a ct is amended— (a) by deleting subsection (5); (b) in subsection (6) by deleting the words “or income exempt under subsection (5)”; and (c) in subsection (7)— (i) by substituting for the definition of “approved operational headquarters company” the following definition: “approved operational headquarters company” means a company— (a) which carries on a business in m alaysia of providing qualifying services to its offices outside m alaysia or to its related companies outside m alaysia; and

5Finance (b) which is approved by the m inister for the purposes of this section;”; (ii) by deleting the definition of “foreign company”; and (iii) in subparagraph (a)(iii) of the definition of “qualifying services” by substituting for the words “and components” the words “, components and finished products”. Amendment of section 65 A 15. p aragraph 65 a (b) of the principal a ct is amended by substituting for the word “six” the word “eight”. Amendment of section 108 16. s ection 08 of the principal a ct is amended— (a) by inserting after subsection ( C) the following subsection: “(d) n otwithstanding any other provision of this a ct, where a dividend is paid, credited or distributed with or without deduction of tax during the basis year for the year of assessment 995, the amount of the dividend received by the shareholder shall be deemed to be a dividend of such a gross amount as after deduction of tax at the rate of thirty per cent would be equal to— (a) the amount in fact paid or credited; or (b) where the dividend consists of property other than money, the amount of the market value of that property at the time of the dividend’s distribution, and a sum equal to the difference between that gross amount and the amount mentioned in paragraph (a) or (b), as the case may be, shall be deemed to have been deducted from the dividend as tax.”;

6 Laws of Malaysia Act 531 (b) by inserting after subsection (4 C) the following subsection: “(4d) i n any case where tax has been deducted or deemed to have been deducted at the rate of thirty-two per cent on any dividend paid, credited or distributed during the basis year for the year of assessment 995 to which subsection ( d) applies, the compared total shall be determined at the rate of thirty per cent.”; and (c) in subsection ( )— (i) by substituting for the full stop at the end of subparagraph (b)(ii) the punctuation mark and word “; or”; and (ii) by inserting after subparagraph (b)(ii) the following paragraph: “(c) a life insurer in respect of his chargeable income which is subject to tax under part viii of s chedule .”. Amendment of section 110 17. s ection 0 of the principal a ct is amended by inserting after subsection ( C) the following subsection: “(d) n otwithstanding subsection ( ), where tax on any dividend paid, credited or distributed during the basis year for the year of assessment 995 has been deducted at the rate of thirty-two per cent, the tax to be set off under subsection () shall be the sum deemed to be the tax deducted from such dividend under subsection 08( d).”. Amendment of section 154 18. s ubsection 54() of the principal a ct is amended by inserting after paragraph (e) the following paragraph: “(ea) prescribing penalties for any contravention or failure to comply with any of the provisions of any rules made under this section: p rovided that no such penalty shall exceed the penalty prescribed under section 0;”.

7Finance Amendment of Schedule 1 19. s chedule  to the principal a ct is amended— (a) in paragraph  of part i by substituting for the rates the following rates: “Chargeable Income RM Rate of Income Tax f or every ringgit of the first  ,500 0 per cent f or every ringgit of the next  ,500  per cent f or every ringgit of the next 5,000 6 per cent f or every ringgit of the next  0,000 7 per cent f or every ringgit of the next  5,000  per cent f or every ringgit of the next  5,000  8 per cent f or every ringgit of the next  0,000  per cent f or every ringgit of the next  0,000  8 per cent f or every ringgit of the next 50,000  per cent f or every ringgit exceeding  50,000  per cent”; (b) in paragraph  of part i by substituting for the words “ per cent” the words “ 0 per cent”; (c) in paragraphs  and  of part ii by substituting for the words “ 0% of gross” and “ 5% of gross” appearing under the column “Rate of income tax” the words “ 5% of gross” and “ 0% of gross” respectively; (d) in part iv by substituting for the rates the following rates: “Chargeable Income RM Rate of Income Tax f or every ringgit of the first  0,000  per cent f or every ringgit of the next  0,000  per cent f or every ringgit of the next  0,000 6 per cent f or every ringgit of the next  0,000 9 per cent f or every ringgit of the next  0,000  per cent f or every ringgit of the next  5,000  6 per cent f or every ringgit of the next  5,000  0 per cent f or every ringgit of the next 50,000  4 per cent f or every ringgit of the next  00,000  7 per cent f or every ringgit of the next  50,000  0 per cent f or every ringgit exceeding 500,000  per cent”;

8 Laws of Malaysia Act 531 (e) in part v by substituting for the words “ 5% of gross” the words “ 0% of gross”; and (f) by inserting after part vii the following part: “part viii n otwithstanding part i and part ii , income tax shall be charged on the chargeable income of a life fund of a resident or non-resident insurer at the rate of ……………………… 8 per cent.”. Amendment of Schedule 3 20. s chedule  to the principal a ct is amended— (a) in paragraph 7b— (i) by substituting for subparagraph (c) the following subparagraph: “(c) industrial, technical or vocational training approved by the m inister;”; (ii) by substituting for the comma at the end of subparagraph (d) the punctuation mark and word “; or”; and (iii) by inserting after subparagraph (d) the following subparagraph: “(e) research undertaken by a research and development company or a contract research and development company as defined in section  of the promotion of investments a ct 986,”; and (b) in paragraph 6  by inserting after subparagraph ( ) the following subparagraph: “(4) n otwithstanding paragraph 6 () where an asset in relation to which the person has incurred qualifying plant expenditure for the purposes of a business of his is disposed of by way of gift, its disposal value shall be deemed to be zero if the gift is made to— (a) a technical or vocational training institute established and maintained by the government or a statutory body;

9Finance (b) a technical or vocational training institute as approved by the m inister; or (c) an approved research institute as defined in section 4b.”. Amendment of Schedule 6 21. s chedule 6 to the principal a ct is amended by inserting after paragraph 5 the following paragraph: “6. s ums received by way of annuities granted under annuity contracts issued by m alaysian life insurers.”. Chapter iii amendments to the pet Roleum ( in Come ta X) a Ct 967 c ommencement of amendments to the Petroleum (Income t ax) Act 1967 22. () e xcept for section , this Chapter shall have effect for the year of assessment 994 and subsequent years of assessment. () s ection  shall be deemed to have come into force on  June 99. Amendment of section 2 23. t he petroleum ( income t ax) a ct 967, which is referred to as the “principal a ct” in this Chapter, is amended in section  in the definition of “approved scheme” by inserting after the word “means” the words “the e mployees provident f und or”. Amendment of section 16 24. p aragraph 6()(a) of the principal a ct is amended by substituting for the words “fifteen per cent” the words “sixteen per cent”.

0 Laws of Malaysia Act 531 Amendment of section 22 25. s ection  of the principal a ct is amended— (a) by substituting for the full stop at the end of subsection () a colon; and (b) by inserting after subsection ( ) the following proviso: “provided that in respect of any gift of money made by that chargeable person during the period from  n ovember 99 to 0 June 994 to the Government low-cost housing fund managed by the Central b ank of m alaysia, there shall be given a further deduction of an amount equal to one half of that gift of money.”. Chapter iv amendment to the stamp a Ct 949 c ommencement of amendment to the Stamp Act 1949 26. t his Chapter shall come into force on  January 995. Amendment of section 20 b 27. t he s tamp a ct 949 is amended by substituting for section 0b the following section: “0b. () e very conveyance either on sale or by way of gift or settlement which operates to vest or transfer an undivided interest in real property, shall contain an affidavit of the transferee certifying that the transaction effected by the instrument does not form part of a larger transaction or series of transactions completed or to be completed within a period of twelve months after the date of the first of the instruments employed to complete the conveyance of the property. () w here the transaction effected by the instrument forms part of a larger transaction or series of transactions, ad valorem duty upon that instrument and upon every other instrument following shall be calculated on the aggregate of the consideration or market values of the separate parts or parcels being conveyed, whichever is the higher, at the rates specified under of subitem (a) in the f irst s chedule.”.

Finance Chapter v amendments to the pRomotion of investments a Ct 986 c ommencement of amendments to the Promotion of Investments Act 1986 28. t his Chapter shall come into force on 8 o ctober 994 and shall have effect for the year of assessment 995 and subsequent years of assessment. Amendment of section 2 29. t he promotion of investments a ct 986, which is referred to as the “principal a ct” in this Chapter, is amended in subsection ()— (a) by substituting for the words “ t ourist d evelopment Corporation of m alaysia” appearing in the definitions of “hotel” and “tourist project” the words “ m inistry of Culture, a rts and t ourism”; and (b) by inserting after the definition of “tax relief period” the following definition: “ “technical or vocational training company” means a company which provides technical or vocational training in m alaysia;”. Amendment of section 4 b 30. s ection 4 b of the principal a ct is amended by substituting for the words “and 6e” the words “, 6e and 6g”. n ew section 26 g 31. t he principal a ct is amended by inserting after section 6f the following section: “Application for approval for investment tax allowance to a technical or vocational training company 26g . () a ny technical or vocational training company participating or intending to participate in m alaysia may make an application in writing to the m inister for approval for purposes of an investment tax allowance.

 Laws of Malaysia Act 531 () a n application made under subsection ( ) shall be in accordance with such regulations as may be made under this a ct.”. n ew section 27 g 32. t he principal a ct is amended by inserting after section 7f the following section: “Grant of approval of application for investment tax allowance made under subsection 26 g (1) 27g . () t he m inister may grant approval in respect of an application for an investment tax allowance made under subsection 6g() subject to such terms and conditions as he deems fit: p rovided that where the m inister is satisfied that the company was engaged in an activity or had otherwise incurred capital expenditure in relation thereto, from a date prior to the date from which the activity was deemed as a promoted activity under section 4 b, the approval may be granted retrospectively from a date not earlier than 8 o ctober 994. () t he m inister may vary the terms and conditions imposed under subsection ( ). () i n exercising his powers under subsections ( ) and (), the m inister shall act with the concurrence in writing of the m inister of f inance.”. Amendment of section 28 33. s ection 8 of the principal a ct is amended— (a) in subsection ( )— (i) by substituting for the words “or 7f” the words “, 7f or 7g”; and (ii) by inserting after the words “ 7f()” the words “, 7g(), 7g()”; and

Finance (b) in subsection ( )— (i) by substituting for the words “or 7f()” the words “, 7f() or 7g()”; and (ii) in paragraph (b) by inserting after the words “7f()” the words “, 7g(), 7g()”. n ew section 29 h 34. t he principal a ct is amended by inserting after section 9g the following section: “Investment tax allowance for application under section 26 g which has been approved under section 27 g 29h . () w here a technical or vocational training company which has been granted approval under section 7g has incurred in the basis period for a year of assessment in respect of an activity relating to technical or vocational training capital expenditure for the purposes of that activity, there shall be given to the company for that year of assessment an investment tax allowance of one hundred per cent of that expenditure. () a n allowance for expenditure given under subsection ()— (a) subject to subsection (4), shall be given only for the year of assessment in the basis period for which that expenditure was incurred; (b) shall be given in respect of expenditure incurred within ten years from the date from which the approval is to take effect: p rovided that where a company incurs capital expenditure from the date from which the approval is to take effect referred to in paragraph ( )(b) in relation to a business which it is about to carry on in respect of an activity relating to technical or vocational training, that expenditure shall be deemed to be incurred in the basis period in which it commences to carry on the business.

4 Laws of Malaysia Act 531 () w here an allowance is given to a company under subsection ( ) for a year of assessment, so much of the statutory income of the business of the company in respect of an activity relating to technical or vocational training for that year of assessment as is equal to the amount of the allowance (or to the aggregate amount of any such allowance, as the case may be) shall be exempt from tax under the principal a ct: p rovided that the amount so exempt shall not exceed seventy per cent of the statutory income of that business of the company for that year of assessment. (4) w here, by reason of an insufficiency or absence of statutory income of the business of the company in respect of an activity relating to technical or vocational training for a year of assessment, effect cannot be given or cannot be given in full to any allowance or allowances to which the company is entitled under this section for that year in relation to the source consisting of that business, then, notwithstanding subsections ( ), () and ( ), so much of the allowance or allowances in question as cannot be given for that year shall be deemed to be an allowance to be given to the company under this section for the first subsequent year of assessment for which there is statutory income from that business, and so on for subsequent years of assessment until the company has received the whole of the allowance or allowances to which it is so entitled. (5) w here any income is exempt from tax by virtue of subsection ( ), section  shall apply to that income (with any necessary modifications) as it applies to income exempt under section . (6) f or the purposes of this section and subject to subsection (7), “capital expenditure”, in relation to technical or vocational training, means capital expenditure incurred on a building or on any plant and machinery used in m alaysia in connection with and for the purposes of an activity relating to training.

5Finance (7) n otwithstanding subsection (6), “capital expenditure” shall not include capital expenditure incurred on buildings (which are used as living accommodation for persons), plant and machinery where such buildings, plant or machinery are provided wholly or partly for the use of a director or an individual who is a member of the management, administrative or clerical staff.”. Amendment of section 37 35. s ubsection 7() of the principal a ct is amended by substituting for the word “adjusted” the word “statutory”.

6 Laws of Malaysia Act 531 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 531 FIn Ance Act 1995 list of amendments a mending law s hort title in force from – nil –

7Finance LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 531 FIn Ance Act 1995 list of se Ctions amended s ection a mending authority in force from – nil – di Cetak oleh pe RCetakan nasional malaysia be Rhad , kuala lumpu R ba Gi pihak dan den Gan pe Rintah ke Ra Jaan malaysia