1Girl Guides LAWS OF MALAYSIA REPRINT Act 456 GIRL GUIDES ACT 1953 Incorporating all amendments up to 1 January 2006 PUBLISHED BY THE COMMISSIONER OF LAW REVISION, MALAYSIA UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF THE REVISION OF LAWS ACT 1968 IN COLLABORATION WITH PERCETAKAN NASIONAL MALAYSIA BHD 2006

2 GIRL GUIDES ACT 1953 First enacted … ... ... .. .……… 1953 (Ord. No. 61 of 1953) Revised ………………… 1991 (Act 456 w.e.f 13 April 1991) PREVIOUS R EPRINT First Reprint ... ... ... ... ... 2001

3 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 456 GIRL GUIDES ACT 1953 ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS Section 1. Short title 2. Interpretation 3. Incorporation of Chief Commissioner and powers of the corporation 4. Execution of documents 5. Appointment 6. Restriction on sale of badges, etc., of the Association 7. Restriction on use of badges 8. Possession of badges 9. Wrongful exercise of authority by a Guide 10. False claims of connection 11. Prohibition of unauthorized organizations 12. Penalty

4 Laws of Malaysia ACT 456

5Girl Guides LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 456 GIRL GUIDES ACT 1953 An Act for the incorporation of the Chief Commissioner of the Girl Guides Association of Malaysia; and to further and protect the activities and interests of the Girl Guides Association of Malaysia. [24 December 1953 ] Short title 1. This Act may be cited as the Girl Guides Act 1953. Interpretation 2. In this Act— “Association” means the Girl Guides Association of Malaysia incorporated under the Royal Charter granted on 14 December 1922; “Guide” includes a Brownie, Guide, Ranger, Cadet or Lay Member of the Girl Guides Association, recognized as such by the Rules of the Girl Guides Association as amended for use by the Malaysia Branch of the said Association. Incorporation of Chief Commissioner and powers of the corporation 3. (1) The person for the time being discharging the duties of Chief Commissioner of the Association, and her successors in office, shall be a body corporate, under the name of the “Chief Commissioner, Girl Guides Association of Malaysia”, in this Act called the “corporation”.

6 Laws of Malaysia ACT 456 (2) The corporation may enter into contracts and may sue and be sued in its said name and shall have perpetual succession and a corporate seal, and the said seal may from time to time be broken, changed, altered and made anew as to the corporation deems fit; and until a seal is provided under this section a stamp, bearing the inscription “Chief Commissioner, Girl Guides Association of Malaysia”, may be used as the corporate seal. (3) The corporation may acquire, purchase, take, hold and enjoy movable and immovable property of every description, and may sell, convey, assign, surrender and yield up, charge, mortgage, demise, reassign, transfer or otherwise dispose of, or deal with, any movable or immovable property vested in the said corporation upon such terms as to the corporation deems fit. Execution of documents 4. All deeds, documents and other instruments requiring the seal of the corporation shall be sealed with the seal of the corporation in the presence of the person for the time being discharging the duties of Chief Commissioner of the Association, who shall sign every such deed, document or other instrument to which the corporate seal is affixed, and such signing shall be sufficient evidence that the said seal was duly and properly affixed and that the same is the lawful seal of the corporation. Appointment 5. A notification in the Gazette of the appointment of any person to hold, or act in, the office of Chief Commissioner of the Association shall be conclusive evidence that such person was duly so appointed. Restriction on sale of badges, etc., of the Association 6. No person, other than the Association, shall sell or expose for sale any badge, token or emblem specifically adopted for use by a Guide under the Rules of the Association, except that such badges, tokens or emblems may be sold or exposed for sale by a person authorized in writing so to do by Chief Commissioner of the Association.

7Girl Guides Restriction on use of badges 7. No person, not being a Guide, shall publicly wear, carry or bear in such a manner as to convey the impression that such person is a Guide any badge, token or emblem specifically adopted for use by a Guide under the Rules of the Association. Possession of badges 8. No person shall without lawful authority or excuse have in his possession— (a) any device which so closely resembles any badge, token or emblem specifically adopted for use by a Guide under the Rules of the Association as to lead to the belief that the device in question is such badge, token or emblem; (b) any badge, token or emblem containing any words or characters so closely resembling any words or characters ordinarily used to describe any Guide as to be calculated to deceive or mislead; or (c) any badge, token or emblem bearing the words “Girl Guide” or “Girl Guides”. Wrongful exercise of authority by a Guide 9. No Guide shall seek or attempt by virtue of her wearing, carrying or bearing any badge, token or emblem of the Association, or badge, token or emblem purporting to be such, to enforce or exercise authority otherwise than in accordance with and as authorized by the Rules of the Association. False claims of connection 10. No person shall form, organize or work in connection with, or be concerned in forming, organizing or working in connection with, any corps or body which without due authority claims or purports to be “Girl Guides” or otherwise to be connected with the Association.

8 Laws of Malaysia ACT 456 Prohibition of unauthorized organizations 11. (1) No person shall, without the consent of the Yang di- Pertuan Agong, form or work in connection with or be a member of any organization other than the Association which carries on or is intended to carry on any work of a similar nature to that carried on by the Association. (2) Subsection (1) shall apply although such organization is, or is contained within, a Society registered or exempted under the Societies Act 1966 [ Act 335 ]. Penalty 12. Any person contravening any of the provisions of this Act shall be liable to a fine of five hundred ringgit.

9Girl Guides LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 456 GIRL GUIDES ACT 1953 LIST OF AMENDMENTS Amending law Short title In force from L.N. 332/1958 Federal Constitution 131958 (Modification of Laws) (Ordinances and Proclamations) Order 1958

10 Laws of Malaysia ACT 456 LAWS OF MALAYSIA Act 456 GIRL GUIDES ACT 1953 LIST OF SECTIONS AMENDED Section Amending authority In force from 11 L.N 332/1958 131958 DICETAK OLEH PERCETAKAN NASIONAL MALAYSIA BERHAD, KUALA LUMPUR BAGI PIHAK DAN DENGAN PERINTAH KERAJAAN MALAYSIA